There's just a lot going on, I think, in
a positive way. A lot of the uncertainty
that was prevalent earlier in the year
is really being washed out of the system
right now.
>> Yes, you might see a slowdown in
economic growth, but you're still seeing
really like resilient results from
companies.
>> The AI theme has kicked back in.
>> The market's just in a particularly
joyous place right now going into
August. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, the records keep coming.
Six consecutive days of all-time highs
for the US equity market as Fed chair
JPAL begins a two-day meeting with some
clarity on trade. The backlash against
the EU's agreement is beginning to brew
across the continent. The euro weakness
continues.
>> So it's exactly what you were saying
yesterday. Let's see how long it takes
before European leaders start to push
back against this trade agreement that
was uh at least in principle agreed upon
yesterday between Ursula Vanderlyan and
Donald Trump. German Chancellor Friedick
Mirz came out. He originally hailed the
deal as something that was success in
avoiding a trade war. He said the German
economy will suffer significant damage
from these tariffs. the euro weakening
yesterday, the biggest one-day weakening
since May with people assessing how much
this reduces growth.
>> The French prime minister called it a
submission. So there was a backlash in
the FX market and a backlash in European
capitals, but most people assume still
the European member states will sign up
to this. Can they follow through? Been
crunching the numbers here at Bloomberg.
The EU is aiming for $250 billion of US
energy imports every single year for the
next three years. Last year that number
was 80 billion. Yeah, a lot of people
are raising questions not only from the
energy component but also how feasible
it is to invest $600 billion dollars in
the United States, let alone exactly
what the details of this type of
arrangement look like. So, as you were
saying before, how binding is that given
the fact that this does seem to be one
of the key proponents components of this
deal?
>> We've got a lot to work through this
morning. Equity futures positive by
0.3%.
And coming up this hour, we'll catch up
with Peter Cher of Academy Securities
and why it's too early to declare
victory on tariffs, Janette Lois
Strategus on what's next for US trade
talks, and Alinos of RBC on the dollar
heading towards his first monthly gain
this year. We begin this hour with our
top story. A city in shock. A gunman
taking four lives in a shooting at an
office tower in Midtown Manhattan.
>> Five innocent people shot tonight.
We lost four
souls to another senseless act of gun
violence,
including
a member of the New York City Police
Department, Officer Islam. No words can
describe this act of evil. A man who
takes the life life of others who are
innocent. It's unimaginable to
experience a loss of this magnitude.
>> Joining us now at the scene is
Bloomberg's Miles Miller. Mars, welcome
to the program, sir. What's the latest
this morning?
>> Well, we know this morning is that this
suspect left a note in his pocket and he
said that he was targeting the NFL. This
is a 27-year-old suspect, Shane Tamura,
who drove cross country from Nevada
right here to Park Avenue. Parked his
car in the middle of Park Avenue, opened
his trunk, and pulled out an M4 rifle.
He walked right into this building a and
was intent on going to NFL headquarters
uh to enact revenge against what he says
is CTE. He says he played football and
because of his time playing football, he
believes he has that chronic condition
that is only really detected after
people are uh dead and they can study
their brain. He walked in this building
yesterday and immediately shot an NYPD
officer in the back and continued
shooting uh until he got up to the 33rd
floor. That's the headquarters of Ruden
Management, a major property management
company here in Manhattan. He shot an
employee and then eventually turned the
gun on himself.
>> Miles, there will be an obvious question
this morning. How how did this
individual make his way to the 33rd
floor of a Midtown Manhattan office
building without the elevator being shut
down?
>> Yeah. You know, one of the things in
this investigation that we've learned is
that a security guard behind the desk uh
took cover. He was trying to take cover
to prevent himself from being shot. And
it's at that moment that he was killed
by this suspect. A number of these
buildings here in Midtown Manhattan have
an elevator kill switch that can shut
the elevators down so that no one can
make it upstairs. But when you have that
volley of shots in the lobby of this
building and all the chaos, it's very
difficult to operate in a situation like
this. We also know that there were two
NYPD officers in the building. One who
was shot yesterday and then another uh
who was also working that detail looking
to determine whether that other officer
was involved and engaged in this
suspect. But what we do know is that
this is something that's been on top of
the minds of CEOs across the country and
specifically here in New York. It was
just last year, Luigi Manion coming here
uh to Manhattan, shooting the head of uh
United Healthc Care's insurance group,
the CEO uh and it had everybody on
notice because we knew that corporate
security was going to be a major topic
and that uh they would need to bolster
security. They tried doing that here
with that officer in the lobby, but what
can you do when this officer is shot in
the back?
>> A tragic loss of life. Mars Miller,
thank you, sir. Miles, we'll catch up
with you a little bit later this
morning. Let's bring in the former FBI
agent, Michael Haragan, who joined us
now for more. Michael, welcome to the
program. As our colleague Mars Miller
was just discussing there, the second
incident in 12 months in this city
targeting corporations and
representatives of those corporations.
Do we need to rethink security for these
organizations?
You know, absolutely. I think corporate
security, I look at the work I've been
doing with the PAX group uh since uh the
Manion case in New York last year, is
that corporate security nationally has
done a lot of assessment of the measures
they take to secure their workplaces,
their people, and their executives. And
in this instance, we have to look at
this and I'm sure there'll be a very
close look at the security layout here
is how an individual with a rifle
walking in plain sight could get into
the lobby, then get into the elevator
and get off at a floor and continue
shooting. So, they'll be looking very
closely at a badging system. Why was
there not a badging system in place for
that for the employees there in some
type of controlled entry? At a certain
point, there's also a question about
motivation and whether this was some
sort of copycat measure. Is there
something about the psychology that
could breed further lone wolf attacks in
a similar manner?
>> You know, absolutely. You know,
disturbed individuals who either have
mental illness or other gripes or
grievances uh sometimes look to lash out
in highly public areas and uh to attack
companies of of note. And here what
they're going to have to do is is try to
find out what this individual's
motivation was. Uh look back in Las
Vegas, they'll be looking extensively at
his conversations with family and
friends, internet connections, social
media posts because everybody wants to
know the why. And the why here is good
for the public to know, but it's also
good for companies to know as they look
to reassess their own security postures.
At a certain point, there's also this
question about this does come just
months after Luigi Manion killed uh an
executive from United Health just five
blocks away from where this incident
occurred. What are corporate executives
getting wrong about what had to happen
to their security and what needs to
happen going forward to prevent someone
from coming in shooting the all the
people the attendants in the lobby and
just carrying on their way?
Well, it's natural in society and among
businesses to to get lacks to get lacks
in security over time and it takes a
concerted effort by company executives
to put in place security measures,
security assessments have to be done
regularly. Threats have to be looked at.
Companies have to examine the uh
intelligence that's out there. Are
people uh you know out there on the
internet making threats or innuendos
against their company? It's really a
complete package that has to be put in
place. And as we saw from the Manion
case, corporate executives have to take
it seriously uh their own personal
protection uh both at home and while
they're on the road doing business. But
really the ultimate thing here is for
Americans to feel secure in their
workplaces because when Americans don't
feel secure in their workplaces,
productivity suffers. So that's one of
the biggest reasons to do corporate
security and to do take reasonable
measures here is stop these attacks and
help employees feel secure at work.
>> I'm sure many of those employees don't
feel safe this morning, Michael, and
that's the problem. And you and I are
talking about the private sector
response to this. What about the public
sector response to this? What should the
police commissioner Jessica Tish be
thinking about this morning?
>> Well, I think the big thing for her is
to have a good uh good information flow.
She has to have good information flow to
the media. The public needs to know what
happened here and they need to know the
why behind it. And the more transparent
the police can be in these instances,
the better off it is because always when
you have a mass shooting or an active
shooter, there's a lot of conspiracy
theories out there and people are
worried. They're worried about whether
there could be other individuals out
there. Are there other businesses that
could be targeted? So, the police need
to be transparent and they have to be
visible, too. So I expect in that part
of town today you're going to see a lot
of uniform presence on the streets and
not just there across the country uh law
enforcement agencies have to be engaged
with the community and they have to
foster good information sharing.
Individuals have to feel comfortable
going to the police and giving them
information about individuals who are
troubled out there because that's where
it starts. But we can't discount also
the responsibility of every citizen when
they have somebody who's suffering, a
family member, a friend or an associate
to step up, offer a helping hand and
also be a conduit to either work HR
departments or to law enforcement to
share their concerns so that these
issues can be interdicted before they
get to a violent end.
>> Michael, appreciate your input this
morning. Thank you, sir. a former FBI
agent Michael Harrian. Tragic events
yesterday evening
>> and really shatters the idea of safety
uh once again in the idea of a lone wolf
potentially targeting a corporate
workplace because of a grievance that's
personal uh and that doesn't have to do
with these specific individuals. I just
wonder what has to be reassessed to make
people feel safe again.
>> If you are just joining us, welcome to
the program. Plenty of updates
throughout this morning on this program
on the tragic events unfolding yesterday
evening. This morning, if you're looking
at equity markets, equity markets doing
okay. futures positive by a quarter of
1%. For our top stories worldwide with
our Bloomberg brief, let's cross over to
Yahara Arnard. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. As you guys were discussing, a
gunman went on a rampage in a Manhattan
office tower housing the NFL and
Blackstone yesterday, killing four
people before then killing himself. The
gunman was targeting the NFL
headquarters, but as Miles said, ended
up on the wrong floor. Police say the
suspect had a history of mental illness
and believe he had driven cross country
to New York. Meanwhile, on the trade
front, US Commerce Secretary Howard
Lutnik says a 90-day extension of a
trade truce with China is likely.
Negotiations between the two countries
are still underway in Stockholm with
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant leading
talks for the US. Key sticking points
include fentinel trafficking and
concerns around China purchasing
sanctioned Russian and Iranian oil.
And still antis shares are falling 3 and
a half% in the pre-market. The automaker
shared it expects to take a $1.4 billion
hit from tariffs in the second half of
this year. This coming after Stellantis
recorded in the first half of the year a
near $350 million impact from tariffs
and lost production. Shares as you can
see are down more than 25% this year.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yahara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, more trade deals on the way.
>> The president's going to decide, look,
this is how I want to play it. He may
entertain a few more deals or he may
decide, you know what, I'm just going to
set the policy going forward. But by the
end of this week, they will all be set.
They will all be in stone and they will
be written. Up next, Peter Chair of
Academy Securities live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Got a ton of data this week, including
lots of labor market data. It starts
this morning at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time
when you get jolts job openings. Look
out for that. Of course, it concludes on
Friday with payrolls Friday and
sandwiched in between tomorrow, a
Federal Reserve interest rate decision.
If you are just joining us, welcome to
the program. Equity futures look like
this this morning. We are positive by
0.3% on the NASDAQ up by 0.4. Under
Savannah this morning, more trade deals
on the way. The president's going to
decide, look, this is how I want to play
it. He may entertain a few more deals or
he may decide, you know what, I'm just
going to set the policy going forward.
But by the end of this week, they will
all be set. They will all be in stone
and they will be written and we will
start collecting those additional
monies. Right now, we're collecting 10%
from everybody in the world and of
course a higher rate from China, but
come next week, off we go.
>> Here's the latest this morning. Commerce
Secretary Howard Lick saying a 90-day
extension of a truce with China is
likely with President Trump's Friday
deadline for other countries fast
approaching. Our team coverage starts
right now with Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
in Washington and Olly Crook in
Stockholm. Tyler, just to come to you
first, set the stage for us for the next
few days.
>> Yeah, hey, John. Good morning. Well, the
White House is trying to get some
additional details done and out when it
comes to these trade frameworks, but at
the same time, you heard the commerce
secretary Howard Lutnik there say that
they're not interested in extending that
August 1st deadline. And he essentially
laid out two options for our trading
partners. One, President Trump may
entertain some more announcements or
he's just going to set the rate. And
that's raising some serious questions
for some of our trading partners that
are steeped in the negotiations and have
long been prioritized in the talks but
haven't yet emerged with some sort of
framework announcement. That includes
South Korea, for example. We heard
Howard Lutnik say in that interview that
the South Koreans actually flew to
Scotland yesterday to meet with him and
the USR Jameson Greer and also big
questions around India, another trading
partner that we know has long been
prioritized in these talks, but has
seemed to sort of harden its stance
during these negotiations, including
when it comes to market access for US
industrial and agricultural products.
Some other key trading partners that
were waiting to see if their rates get
lowered include Canada and Mexico as
well. John, of course, these two
countries were tariffed totally
separately, not on Liberation Day. Yet,
they have also found themselves up
against that August 1st deadline.
>> Ollie, we've had lots of clarity in the
past few weeks. I think investors just
hoping now we kick the can with regards
to China. Can we just kick the can and
extend this another 90 days?
>> I think that's the base case, Jonathan.
the expectation after 5 hours of talks
between the US Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant Jameson Greer and the vice
premere of China yesterday. They spoke
for about 5 hours in Sweden and Sweden's
prime minister's office. They just
walked in about an hour and a half ago
to extend those conversations and we're
hoping to have an outcome some point uh
in the afternoon hopefully here from
both sides. The expectation, Jonathan,
as you say, is to get another extension
to that trade truce that will leave the
tariff level at 30% from the US side
onto China down from that 125% level
that we had at the sort of height of the
trade war between the two sides because
the deadline right now is is August the
12th. They're hoping to extend that in
terms of a longer framework in terms of
an actual agreement between China and
the United States. I mean, you guys know
how difficult and how elusive that
conversation is going to be. I'll just
say that it really is interesting to see
what we've seen between the European
Union and the United States and China in
the United States and the contrast
there. The Europeans went on the side of
pragmatism. Not everybody is happy about
it. But there's the issue of pride and
pride is a much more active ingredient
in the conversations with China and the
United States. China has been building
it up itself up economically,
geopolitically across the world for the
last several decades. They do not want
to be seen to giving more to the United
States than they have to. Whereas the
Europeans in contrast sort of want to
appear to be giving more than they
actually are. And that is really going
to be the sticking point here. As we
know that Trump himself says he does not
want to go to China just because he
wants to go to. He's going there by
invitation. So Pride is a very sort of
active role in these discussions.
Hopefully we'll get something from the
US Treasury Secretary in a couple of
hours time.
>> Ollie appreciate the update. Stay close.
Sonic Crook there alongside Tyler
Kendall. Peter CH of Academy Securities
with us around the table this morning.
Good morning Pete.
>> Morning John.
>> Good to see you sir. tariff revenue, how
large and how bond positive is it going
to be?
>> So I think that's the one thing we're
missing. So the last two months we've
generated about 20 billion extra. So for
the last 5 years we ran between 8 and 9
billion a month in tariff revenue.
That's popped to 28 billion. It probably
goes down a little bit then some sort of
steady pace probably around that 30
billion. That will offset a lot of the
deficit. I think that's a good part. But
now it's also explains why we haven't
seen tariffs hit the economy at all.
Right? Only 50 billion 60 billion so
far. It's a, you know, tiny drop in the
buck of this economy. If you think about
a company, even if they turn their
inventory over twice a year, it's going
to take 6 months or so before they have
all their inventory affected by tariffs.
So, I think the inflation pressures from
tariffs, the earning pressure from
tariffs are down the road. And the other
problem that we're seeing, I think, a
little bit, it's hard to decipher is it
seems like it's hitting small and
mid-size companies much harder than
large corporations, right? Large cap
companies had the working capital. They
had the, you know, ability to move their
shipments around. It hasn't happened
about the small and mid-size companies
and I think that's taking time to leak
into the data.
>> So you can push through that idea into
the bond market as John was sort of
hinting and both of these would be
supportive for the bond market. They
might question the stock market a little
bit more in terms of any kind of
pressures to growth. Is that your uh
your thesis here?
>> Yeah, I think you know we're back at 440
on 10. This is sort of level I start
liking them again. I think we should be
much closer to 4%. And I think POW is
going to have to cut a little bit. And I
think all the fears about the deficit,
while real, they're missing some of this
trade, you know, tariff revenue. And I
think we got to be really, you know,
cautious or think about it this way,
right? President Trump, Howard Lutnik,
right now, they are seeing all the
benefits of tariffs, this additional
revenue. They're not yet seeing the
downside. So I think they're going to
continue to push on that and they're
going to wait to see if there are
problems. That might be when they back
off or change their tune. But right now,
they'll drive those revenues. They'll
try and get the deficit down. And I
think the bond market's kind of, you
know, missing that whole story. This is
bond positive in terms of lowering the
deficit as well as potentially slowing
growth. It doesn't sound particularly
positive for stocks. We just had their
sixth straight record close. If they're
if they're seeing a seventh today, that
would be the first time going back to
November of 2021. And stocks haven't
moved more than 1% in a month. Is this a
shockproof economy as Rick Reader is
saying, or is this something uh that
maybe is just in denial,
>> you know? So, I think you know the
tariff is actually pushing down on
stocks. On the other side, what you've
got, I think, is this, you know, we've
been calling it Academy of Securities,
national production for national
security, right? We have to produce and
make things that are good for national
security. So, two weeks ago, uh, the
Department of Defense invested 400
million in, um, MP, they got 1.1 billion
of debt. Um, Bess, I think last week
when he was on with Anarie, basically
almost said those exact words of, you
know, national production for national
security. And then President Trump went
on about uh, data and AI and how
important it is, how we're going to make
sure we have the electricity for AI to
run. So I think there's a lot of support
for that and I think that's actually
what's propelling the market. It's also
why it's very concentrated in a handful
of sectors.
>> I'm pleased Lisa mentioned Rick Reader.
It's a fantastic piece of the Financial
Times. If you happen to read it, there's
a quote in front of me. Markets are not
ignoring risk. They are pricing a system
built to absorb it. A serviceoriented
economy, fortress balance sheets, and
liquidity rich investor base deliver a
two for one resilient growth and
elevated fixed income yields. That's the
power of US financial markets. How does
the rest of the world compete with it?
>> Well, you know, weirdly, they're doing
pretty well. Especially the one thing I
think we're missing right now is part of
what's driven, I think, those US stock
market return is the weakness in the
dollar, right? DXY is down
significantly. All of a sudden, you're
seeing DXY creep back higher, right? And
I think the lower dollar has been a big
benefit. You look at European, you know,
stock markets for US dollar investor,
they're up significantly more because of
that. So I think the weak dollar if that
starts reversing that will actually put
some pressure on US stocks. I do think
we're resilient. I think it's about the
growth story. And the one thing you know
that really ties in nicely to this whole
you know national production for
national security is the accelerated
depreciation and a couple other things
in the big beautiful bill. If we can
just jumpst start that there is that
opportunity. So I think there is a
growth element with this tariff and
those are kind of balancing out. I think
right now the growth story makes sense.
>> Correlations were really messy in April.
Have we reestablished more intuitive
correlations between risk between
equities, bonds, and foreign exchange
for that matter?
>> I think they're normalizing a little
bit. And again, it's, you know, we talk
about some of these negative trade deals
for Europe and other places. Their stock
markets continue to do well. If you look
at FXI as, you know, an ETF on China,
it's actually way outperformed the US.
So, yes, we've been successful, but
other countries seem to be doing well.
And I think when I look at these tariff
deals, I think what you had is a
situation where countries that all of a
sudden in shock. You can't just say,
"Whoa, I'm walking away from the US." We
will see what the world economy looks
like 6 months or year down the road,
right? Everyone's going to come to the
table. Everyone's going to say some sort
of deal. But then what do they really
try and do? Are they to try and work
with the US or are they going to try and
figure out alternatives? You know, at
one time EU was starting a ter um a
trade deal with Canada. That kind of
died. do things like that get
resurrected? And the other thing is I
think we're seeing tariff mitigation
strategies across the board. Um you know
you Canada, Mexico, USMCA compliant
goods, they're getting approval for
those things. So it's not as bad as it
looks either.
>> Earlier this year you were concerned
about the tainting of the American brand
and how there'd be a boycott
internationally. You sound a lot more
positive now. Why?
>> So I'm still worried about where we're
seeing that. I think you're seeing it in
tourism. You've seen it in certain car
companies. I feel like they're not
getting the sales globally. So I I think
that will all take time. I think we've
changed the tone from less punishment to
okay, let's try and make deals. And it
seems like the president has softened. I
think we've also had some big successes.
I'll go back and a lot of it changed for
me when we attacked, you know, Iran's
nuclear facilities. All of a sudden it
was the US, you know, acting as the
global superpower really doing something
incredibly impressive. And I think that
was a big win and sent a message to the
rest world. Okay, the US hasn't gone
back and gone completely isolationist.
They are still doing there. So to me
that also really helped change the
narrative. I think globally what is the
US? So I think that was one of the most
you know instrumental things that the
administration has done is that attack
on Iran.
>> There was a worry also that August 1st
would just become the new July 9th and
this would continue the new April 2nd
and this would continue through the next
I don't know 12 months.
>> Yeah. And so you get some certainty
maybe Thursday of course we have a
potential court ruling that could upend
some of that certainty but at least
there is a path of travel that people
can understand for now uh in terms of
what at least the ceiling could be and
what the floor is.
>> We'll talk about that court ruling in
just a moment. Peter Cher Academy. It's
good to see you sir. Pete thank you. Up
next on the program Janette Low of
Strategus says backlash bruise in the EU
over the US trade deal. Plus Danny
Burgerer with your morning movers. UPS
falling after pulling its fullear
guidance. That stock is down by 3%. From
New York, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Massive week for earnings. 11 trillion
of tech earnings coming up. 20% of the
S&P 500 across just four names. Those
four names start to report tomorrow
afternoon. Equity futures add some
weight to the rally. Up by 0.3% on the
S&P, up by point4 on the NASDAQ 100. Six
consecutive days of alltime highs on the
S&P. With 3 hours until the opening hour
with your morning movers, let's cross
over to Danny Burger. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Some earnings to work through
this morning about half an hour ago. We
got United Health Group and they had
pulled their 2025 guidance. They
reinstated it and it was a
disappointment. $16 is where they see
their earnings for the year. The
estimate was $20.40.
It's a group that's been hit with issue
after issue with higher medical costs,
reports of regulators, investigation.
They really needed to restore
confidence. This certainly will not help
with shares down 3.3%. We also heard
from UPS this morning. For them, it is a
cut or rather a non-issuance of their
guidance pulling their fouryear forecast
down 2.5%. They are citing macro
uncertainty saying that it is a very
complex environment for them as they try
to retool their network. Finally, we
also had Whirlpool earnings as well.
Now, this is an appliance maker that
makes most of their things in the US.
So, it was supposed to be a beneficiary
of tariffs abroad, but instead the
company says that its rivals,
specifically those in Asia, pulled
forward everything, shipped in to beat
the tariffs, so they didn't get that
boost. It also doesn't help that the
macro environment isn't great for them
either. They blame slowing home sales.
So those shares down 16% with a miss and
a cut to their outlook. John
>> Danny, I appreciate it. Thank you.
Danny's going to keep working through
the earnings throughout this morning.
Just to pick up on UPS briefly, the
obvious response to a report like that.
Is that a UPS problem or have we got a
problem with this economy?
>> That was exactly what I was thinking.
UPS is trying to rejigger its structure
for quite a while in part because of a
strike from the union as well as some of
the competition that you're seeing from
the likes of Amazon. That said, this
used to be a bellweather for consumer
demand and for package volume. How much
is that also a part of it as we do hear
more warnings on how much the tariffs
are going to hit?
>> The stock is down by 2.6% in early
trading. On our radar this morning, our
top story, a gunman fatally shooting
four people in a Midtown Manhattan
office building on Monday evening. The
NYPD identifying the alleged shooter as
a 27year-old man who drove to New York
from Nevada.
>> There are so many parts of the story uh
from a corporate security standpoint.
There's a question of whether this is an
increasing trend with respect to
corporations being targeted by people
with specific grievances uh regardless
of where they are coming from in the
country. The fact that this happened
five blocks away from where the United
Health shooting happened really notable.
There's also a question about why
someone with mental health issues had a
license to have a concealed militaryra
weapon at any point who could just walk
in plain sight into a building and then
engage in this type of violence. That's
what's concerning. You want to give the
NYPD the space to continue the
investigation. And of course, everyone
is going to do that, and we'll get you
updates throughout this morning, but a
lot of people will be very anxious about
returning to work this morning,
particularly in Midtown Manhattan, given
the ease at which this took place
yesterday evening.
>> And so, what kind of assurance can there
be that there is enough oversight? And
how difficult is it, and this is
something that we need to keep
exploring, how difficult is it when you
do have a lone wolf attack when there
isn't necessarily the telltale signs
that people can track uh at any given
point? We'll catch up with the team at
the scene in about 30 minutes from now
for an update on trade talks between the
US and China. They enter a second day in
Stockholm. The commerce secretary Howard
Lutnik saying another 90-day extension
of a trade truce with China is the
likely outcome. And I have to say for
many investors that's the desired
outcome as well.
>> If you just keep kicking the can, it's
probably easier than trying to come up
with something and a pretty fraught
relationship. You wonder what's involved
in the ongoing prolonging of this
deadline. It's not just the trade
aspects. the Taiwanese president was
going to make a stop in the United
States on his way uh to a host of
American countries and Trump President
Trump didn't let him stop in New York
City and there are rumors that maybe he
called off his trip that maybe President
Trump is reconsidering but you wonder
why and there was some speculation that
this was part of the negotiations to try
to pave the pathway for a better
conversation with his the Chinese
counterparts in Stockholm. Again, what
are the geopolitical elements of some of
these trade deals? You can point to
Russia and Ukraine and all of these
other things, but that's really where
I'm focused.
>> Chinese officials are very good at
dragging this out, dragging this out and
dragging this out. And I think US
officials, particularly these
negotiators, are well aware of that,
that the Chinese are always looking to
buy time by time because they understand
the political cycle and things move on.
And I understand that the Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson will have that in
mind as he pushes them aggressively to
rebalance their economy. This is
something we've talked about for years,
something that's good for them, good for
the global economy, something they've
been reluctant to do. Can they finally
get it done? Now, there's a better
agreement with the EU, at least for the
US side of things in the past few days.
>> You rais a great point. If they have a
tendency to prolong and prolong and
prolong from the Chinese side, how much
leverage does the United States have to
really push back against that given the
fact that the rare earth's metals are
instrumental in the cars, the phones,
everything that we use on a day-to-day
basis in the United States. And that is
the rub that we experienced after April
2nd.
>> This conversation has big consequences
for the following company. Apple reports
later this week they're set to close the
retail store in China for the first time
ever. The decision following Apple's
ongoing sales struggles in the country
as local competition continues to gain
ground. That stock is unchanged this
morning. It is down by double digits on
the year so far and it has been a tricky
year so far,
>> especially when it comes to their China
strategy. Just to give you a sense of
what kind of footprint it has. Uh the
greater China region has about 56 stores
that are from Apple in the entire
region. That's about 10% of its
footprint. This goes to a global story
though for Apple which is they were in
expansion mode until the pandemic and
then since the pandemic they've really
slowed in terms of how many stores
they've been opening and there's been
this feeling that maybe they're reaching
a saturation point. for Apple. How do
they give a sense that they're going to
hit some sort of growth cycle given the
fact that you're not seeing the upgrades
that there's a question around
technological prowess and how much of an
advancement they have? And then there
are all these extra costs from tariffs
and geopolitical risk. And that I think
is really uh going to be in focus for
Apple on Thursday.
>> There's no growth.
>> Yeah,
>> there's next to no growth for the the
king of hardware, which is Apple. And
they've been a king of hardware for a
long long time. A luxury item that
everyone wanted. And now to your point,
the technological progress of the last
12 months or so and they just don't seem
to be in the lead in any way, shape or
form and Meta has been going after them
big time after their talent.
>> Yeah. And this is the reason why the
shares are down some 15% this year. It's
notable that yesterday we saw the
Magnificent 7 reach its first record
high so far this year. Even though you
see Apple down 15% so far this year,
even though Tesla's down 19%, it raises
a question of whether they belong in the
same kind of rubric as these others
because they don't have that growth that
really was underpinning some of the
gains that we saw in the stocks earlier.
>> Apple reports in two days time. Let's
turn back to trade. Negotiations between
the US and China are concluding at
Stockholm today. The commerce secretary
Howard Lnik expecting a 90-day extension
of the current trade truce. Janette Lo
Strategus writes, "Assuming there is a
90-day extension of the current tariffs
on China, we are only waiting for
clarity on the rates for 40% of the
remaining goods that will be subject to
reciprocal tariffs." Janette, I'm
pleased to say, joins us now for more.
Janette, I want to start the
conversation where Lisa was leading us
to about 10 minutes ago, which is
whether these tariffs will actually
survive the legal process in this
country. What are you telling clients
about that?
Yeah. So I think this is a big week
obviously for the the tariff argue uh
the legal argument with regard to the
AIPA tariffs or the international
emergency economic powers act tariff and
so that is going to happen on Thursday.
We're just going to get oral arguments.
We may not have a decision before August
potentially even later into the year.
And this is also likely going to go to
the Supreme Court. I think for some po
points the president probably wants to
get these trade deals in place before
there could be some decision um to that
might provide more uncertainty for the
market about whether or not these
tariffs can be put into place under that
legal authority. But one of the things
that we try to remind our clients is
that even if these tariffs are
overturned ultimately by the Supreme
Court, they can be reimposed under other
methods. they wouldn't be necessarily as
efficient, but the president can still
use section 122 authority to put tariffs
in immediately. He can also use section
301 investigations to go after unfair
trade practices. So even if they get
overturned, it will create uncertainty,
but wouldn't necessarily be the end of
the tariff story,
>> which really raises the question about
where we are in the 232, the section 232
tariff uh investigations and this idea
of some of these parallel tariff methods
that are being explored in other avenues
just in case there is this type of
outcome. How close are we to seeing
tariffs uh signed off on from those
other provisions that could really
bypass some of the legal scrutiny?
Right. And so this is really important
because obviously the section 232
tariffs are not being challenged legally
under this court case. And this is what
is going after critical areas that the
president would also like to see more
domestic manufacturing. So
semiconductors, pharmaceuticals,
critical minerals, um auto tariffs, the
steel and aluminum, all of those would
remain in place. We do keep continue to
hear from the president and the white
house that they are going to announce at
least the report on the uh the
investigation into pharmaceutical
imports and semiconductor imports. But
the president has also promised to give
a one-year delay on the pharmaceutical
tariffs. So that's something that we're
going to be watching for especially as
we go into Friday. Um and then also what
happens with semiconductors? Do we
announce them and have the tariffs go
into effect relatively soon or does that
also get a delay like pharmaceutical
tariffs? I think that will be quite
important because the tariff story is
not quite done even with this first
August 1st deadline.
>> Janette, I was very excited to think
that we were getting some greater degree
of certainty when it came to the
framework of trade going forward and
that seems to be what the market's been
cheering over the past few days. Are you
telling clients don't get so don't get
so secure in that idea because
ultimately we could see some pretty
dramatic changes to this framework
whether from legal or whether it's from
adjusting just what provisions these
tariffs come from. Well, I think what
we've noticed is that especially once
the tax bill came into effect, I think a
lot of investors were a little bit less
worried about the impact of the tariffs
because the tax bill does offset and
provide some relief for consumers and
businesses and it helps to offset the
impact of the tariffs. And then there
was a lot of focus on getting more
certainty about the trade deals, knowing
what the rate would be and having that
certainty to be able to make move
forward and make decisions. But we do
kind of continue to point out that this
isn't necessarily over. Um we will
probably have some trade deals, but
again these sectoral tariffs continue to
play a role. Uh there are also other
investigations that are um currently in
place. So you still have lumber,
critical minerals, um they're looking at
uh aircraft. So there's a whole host of
other things where you can't necessarily
be complacent that the tariff fight is
over. And then I do think whatever
happens with the courts will potentially
add some uncertainty that investors do
need to be aware of.
>> Janette, we've got some experience with
purchase agreements. We have that
experience in a president's first term
and at the time you'll remember we all
had a similar conversation. What is the
enforcement mechanism? How binding are
these agreements? And I think those
conversations have started again not
just with the EU but with Japan as well.
Just how binding are these agreements
between these countries?
Yeah, I mean you had the the
conversation where Trump actually asked
the EU at the meeting um on Sunday and
said, "How do we know that you're
actually going to follow through with
these investments?" And they, you know,
had the idea to list off which
investments various companies were
planning to do in the United States. But
of course, that is a question whether or
not it is enforcable and how. Um the the
big point is is that this is still a
framework. We still have a lot of
details that still need to be worked
out. The EU continues to kind of imply
that there could be new uh developments
to this deal. Could there actually be a
quota system for the steel and aluminum
tariffs? So then how do we see what that
framework looks like for the investments
from the European side, from the
Japanese side if there's another deal to
be announced in the coming days? How
does all of that work? So, I think that
that is still an open question because
of course I think the president is also
thinking about his deal with China back
in 2018 and whether or not China
actually followed through with its
purchase agreements and how does that
play going forward and I think he'll
continue to use tariffs to hold a threat
over if he doesn't feel like those
investments are happening.
>> Janette, appreciate the reaction from
you. Janette Lo there a strategam. This
headline crosses the Bloomberg terminal
just moments ago. The EU intends to
purchase 40 billion euros worth of AI
chips in a trade pact with the US.
>> So, I'm just just throwing this out
there. How much of that uh purchasing uh
power was already planned to try to get
some chips on board at a time when that
is the future for so many different uh
corporations? It just raises a question.
Is this just codifying the investments
that companies were already making in
the United States, putting them on a
nice list, packaging them and saying you
can go and you can celebrate this in a
rose garden ceremony and say that you've
got a win or is this actual new
investment that's coming in from
government sources?
>> I think when it comes to energy, and we
could talk about energy specifically,
it's redirected the spending that was
going towards Russia to the United
States. And I remember when Will
Kennedy, who led our energy coverage
months and months ago, said that to get
to an agreement here is like pushing on
an open door. The EU wants to buy that
energy, that energy from the United
States and the US wants to sell it. Now,
the Biden White House had other ideas,
but this White House wants to make that
happen. So, I think that is something
that we can make happen in the years to
come. And I wonder how much that was
part of the announcement after
yesterday's trade deal was announced
between the US and Europe that uh
President Trump said he is going to
shrink the amount of time that Vladimir
Putin had to really respond to the
demand for a ceasefire with Ukraine to
10 to 11 days rather than 40 saying all
right let's get a deal. I wonder how
much that was part of this discussion
with the Europeans.
>> Can we get to 250 billion every single
year? I don't know. Can we get above 80?
Sure. There's no reason why we can't.
Let's give you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Yahara. Hey, Yhira.
>> Hi, John. We start with yesterday's
tragic shooting. A gunman opened fire
inside a Manhattan office tower housing
the NFL in Blackstone, killing four
people before killing himself.
Authorities say he intended to target
the NFL, but ended up on the wrong
floor. A manifesto found on him and
social media posts reveal an obsession
with CTE, an anchor toward the NFL over
how it handles head injuries.
Meanwhile, as countries race to secure
trade deals with the US, talks with
India are coming up short, US trade
representative Jameson Greer shared more
negotiations will be needed to secure a
deal ahead of President Trump's August 1
deadline. Greer highlighted India's
historic policy towards protecting its
market, but said they are having
constructive discussions.
And Taiwanese President Liing Tet
appeared to call off a US trip planned
for next week after the Trump
administration failed to greenlight his
US stopover amid concerns it could
derail trade talks with China. Lie had
planned to stop in New York and Dallas,
but officials could not get US
counterparts to approve that visit. Dr.
Bloomberg re John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, backlash bruise
in Europe. We have a trade deal between
the two largest economies in the world.
It's a huge deal. Yeah.
>> With tough negotiations. I knew it at
the beginning and it was indeed very
tough.
>> And the push back begins. We'll catch up
with Al Selinios of RBC up next.
[Music]
One stock in focus this morning. This in
Europe. Stalantis down by 1.98%
down yesterday by 2.7 on the back of the
trade deal with the United States this
morning. Europe and European companies
putting a price on it.
>> Yeah. In particular, car companies. in
particular car companies that are have
already been struggling. Stantis
reintroduced some guidance, although
Jeffre called it vague and it included a
1.2 billion euro hit in the second half
of this year tied to tariffs at a time
where they already are dealing with an
overhaul of their different auto chains
and falling sales. It just goes to show
you're punished if you withdraw guidance
as we've seen from UPS and you're
punished if you issue a vague guidance.
This doesn't show a pathway to growth as
we're seeing with Stellantis. Confident
optimism
>> exactly
>> seems to be what's needed. That's what
you're getting from US markets at the
moment. Six consecutive days of alltime
highs. Futures positive by 0.3%. Under
surveillance this morning, backlash
bruise in Europe. We have a trade deal
between the two largest economies in the
world and it's a big deal and it will
bring stability. It's 15% tariffs across
the board all inclus inclusive. The
European market is open. It's 450
million people. It's a huge deal.
>> Yeah,
>> was tough negotiations. I knew it at the
beginning and it was indeed very tough,
but we came to good conclusions for both
sides.
>> Here's the latest this morning. The euro
falling to its weakest level against the
dollar in 5 weeks as European leaders
push back against the EU's trade deal
with the US. The French prime minister
saying quote, "It is a dark day when an
alliance of free peoples gathered to
affirm their values and defend their
interests resolves to submit. Also Linos
of RBC joined us now for more. Also,
that's the rhetoric coming out of Europe
this morning. I just wonder how empty it
is. Are they pushing back because
they're not going to sign up to this or
ultimately is that the direction of
travel?
>> There is a challenge here and Osula
Vanderlayan admitted it herself that any
legal trade deal has to get through
member state approval. Um, but at the
moment what we have is a non-legally
binding agreement lacking on specifics.
Um, and we haven't even reached the
stage yet where we're going to get a
little bit more of the specific detail
coming out. We've just had the fact
sheet from the US side, some details
coming out from the European side. Not
always perfect alignment either between
the two.
>> It looks like a very one-sided deal in
the US's favor. That's for sure. That's
the view of lots of people. So, I just
wonder what that means for a currency
pair that's been moving in the other
direction pretty aggressively over the
past few months.
It's a great question because I think
the deal as you say pretty one-sided
undermines two key tenets of the dollar
bearishness euro bullishness that has
held year to date and the first is that
there was big expectation of rotation
out of US assets and into European
assets and we saw yesterday and today
you know European equities not loving
this European defense stocks coming
under pressure because of course the um
flow is going to be more directed
towards US defense stocks but on top of
that um it is likely to be inflationary
for the US and so that calls into
question the ability of the Fed to cut
rates aggressively which again is a key
tenant of the Euro dollar bearish
outlook. All of that said, the
longerterm direction of travel for many
people is still higher, ourselves
included, because we do think the Fed is
going to be cutting rates, albeit
perhaps with a later start. And so, as
you get into 2026, there will be
longerterm investors who are
underhedged, who are still looking for
levels to get into those long euro
dollar positions, and this pullback is
is a gift to them.
>> So, uh, just to put a bow on that, is
this essentially a buying opportunity
for you for the euro?
Yeah, I mean I think you you already saw
that a little bit this morning where you
know we were trading around 11580 had
that quick dip down to 11530 and it was
um fairly quickly erased and I think
people will be looking to layer into
hedges and and 115 is not a bad level if
you've got a 1 to uh 2-year outlook. Um
there is the negative carry but you know
from a long run perspective euro dollar
does remain cheap at current valuations
>> given the fact that there's a lot of
concern about what this means for
European growth. You have Deutsche Bank
analysts coming out this morning and
said that they're reducing their
European GDP expectation by 0.5% as a
result of these tariffs. Does that
influence your bullish call on the euro
at all? Or is that sort of uh just
something that you had expected?
>> Well, it's already factored in. I mean,
up until not so long ago, I was being
questioned on why my call on the euro
was not more bullish. So we had 117 for
the end of this quarter, you know,
heading up to 124 um by the end of next
year. And you know, part of the reason
it wasn't more bullish was precisely, as
you say, you know, the European growth
outlook, it's decent, but it's not
spectacular. Um the ECB appears to be
done, but rates are still significantly
lower than they are in the US. So a lot
of that is already factored into, you
know, why we're not calling for Euro
dollar to stay at 135 or 140. The flip
side though is that as the Fed cuts
rates and unless you know you really
have a view that the Fed is not going to
be cutting anytime in the next 18
months, the reality is that yield
differential is going to compress at the
front end and that should lead to a lot
more in the way of hedging flow. Al so
just to finish on rate differentials for
anyone introduced to foreign exchange
101 it's rate differentials but I just
wonder how relevant they've been in this
market regime over the past 12 months
because this euro has rallied through an
easing cycle at the ECB that the Federal
Reserve so far this year hasn't
participated in. How relevant are rate
differentials?
>> Exactly. It's a great question and I
think this highlights how much of this
rally has been investors anticipating
what's to come rather rather than
trading on what's you know right in
front of them here and now. So there's
been a broad expectation that the Fed is
going to be cutting rates, that the ECB
is pretty much done with easing and
therefore that you are going to get this
switch um into Euro dollar hedges and at
the same time a broad expectation that
you're going to get rotation out of US
assets into European assets and
sometimes when it's speculative
positioning ahead of the actual reality
um coming to fruition, you can get these
positioning led pullbacks like the one
we're seeing at the moment.
>> Elsa, appreciate the reaction. Thanks
for the input. Also there of RBC on the
FX markets and welcome news for those of
you with an August vacation booked. Euro
dollar 11575.
>> Yeah, maybe not such great news though
for companies because this is one of the
bull cases for corporate America given
the in fact it's a huge tailwind when
you have a competitive advantage in the
form of a weaker dollar. So let's see
how far this can go based on just how
lopsided positioning had gotten heading
into this.
>> This morning is like the calm before
before the financial market storm over
the next two days. In many ways the week
begins tomorrow, right? earnings,
Federal Reserve. Then we make our way
towards payrolls on Friday.
>> And it's not just a number of act of
actions that we're going to get tomorrow
and on Thursday. It is a series of
blockbuster releases that could define
the remaining half of this year. And so
yes, I would argue maybe we've been
seeing the con before the storm for the
past, I don't know, 6 months.
>> In the meantime, the grind continues up
by 0.3% on the S&P. Up next, we'll catch
up with the former FBI executive
officer, Michael King. Mike Wilson of
Morgan Stanley will speak to the former
US trade representative Susan Shaw and
Dominic Rizzo of Tro Price from New York
City. Good morning. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance up next.
[Music]
>> I think you can't say that this labor
market's not in transition.
>> The labor market is okay now, but the
risks are rising. We do think we'll see
a cut in September and in December, and
there's a possibility of being more cuts
next year.
>> I don't think anyone's debating right
now whether or not the Fed's going to
hike. It's just a matter of when they
cut.
>> The question is not simply is the Fed
cutting rates, but by how much.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> The grind high continues. The second
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance starts
right now. Six days of gains on the S&P
500. Six consecutive all-time highs. Can
we make it day seven? Up by 0.3% on the
S&P and the NASDAQ 100 up by 0.5. As we
said a little bit early this morning,
it's the calm potentially before the
financial market storm. Earnings coming
up this week. Tomorrow, Meta, Microsoft,
Thursday, Apple, Amazon, and then the
data. The data starts this morning,
10:00 a.m. Eastern time with the jolts
number. And then it picks up through the
week and concludes with payrolls on
Friday.
>> And all of this is going to set the tone
at a time where we haven't seen the S&P
move more than 1% in a month. Just to
give you a sense of how yes, this has
been a grind higher, but it's been a
grind. To put some numbers on that
earnings flood as you were talking
about, we're getting $3.2 trillion of
earnings of the S&P today. We're getting
$7.6 trillion worth of market cap
tomorrow and $8.8 8 trillion on Thursday
at the same time that potentially we get
some guidance from the Fed about how
they're looking at the record highs of
the strength in corporate America and
how they're going to use that and still
justify cutting rates later in the fall.
>> Just how extended is this rally? This
came from Jonathan Krinsky of BTIG. It's
the S&P's longest streak above its
20-day moving average since 1997. He
concludes the clock is ticking for a
shakeout.
>> Yeah, but if you call it a bubble,
you're going to start triggering people.
In particular, Max Katner over at H
HSBC. And part of the reason why is
there is an argument that multiples
should be higher if companies can be
much more efficient and are going to
grow significantly more because of some
of the technological advancements that
are underpinning this. And that's the
reason why this week is so important
with what we get from Apple and Amazon
and Meta and Microsoft given the fact
that they are driving a lot of the
adaption and the agents and all of the
AI uh innovation that we're seeing
throughout corporate America.
>> You're on team tech, not team data,
aren't you?
>> 100%. Because I think that that has been
driving a lot of the optimism. team data
has been uh just basically a lost cause
trying to interpret. You can interpret
however you want and I will say that
you're probably right if you look at it
that way and you could look at it a
different way but it has been a
roarshock test.
>> The gains continue this morning up by
0.3% on the S&P in just a moment. We'll
catch up with Mike Wilson of Morgan
Stanley following a fresh record high.
Mike Wilson leaning into the bull case
over at Morgan Stanley. More from him in
about 10 minutes time. We'll also speak
to the former trade representative Susan
Schwab. Look out for that on what's next
for US trade talks. and Dominic Rizzo at
Tro Price ahead of Max 7 earnings
through this week. We begin this hour
with our top story. A city in shock. A
gunman taking four lives in a shooting
at an office tower in Midtown Manhattan.
>> Five innocent people shot tonight.
We lost four
souls to another senseless act of gun
violence,
including
a member of the New York City Police
Department, Officer Islam. No words can
describe this act of evil. A man who
takes the life life of others who are
innocent is unimaginable to experience a
loss of this magnitude.
>> Joining us now at the scene is
Bloomberg's Miles Miller. Miles, thank
you for making time for us this morning.
I know they've been tracking this story
all night, piecing together just what
happened. What's the latest?
Yeah, what we are learning this morning
is that the suspect was targeting the
NFL. It is headquartered here on the
fifth floor of this building, 345 Park
Avenue, that also happens to house
Blackstone, as you can see behind me,
and KPMG, uh, as well as some other
firms. What we know yesterday is that
around 6:28, this man pulls up outside
this building uh with an M4 rifle, a
long gun, a and immediately starts
firing into this building. Behind me,
there is a glass panel that is
completely shot out here. And it's got
the webbing and all of that. That shows
you just how uh serious this situation
was.
fires into the building, immediately
strikes an NYPD officer that's doing a
paid detail unit, basically an officer
off duty, but wearing um a a security
vest and his uniform. What we know this
morning is that his motive appears to be
targeted at the NFL. He says that he
played football in high school and later
on and that he has what is known as CTE.
It's a chronic condition, uh, a brain
condition that is only really realized
after someone dies when they pull their
brain out and really examine it. It is
something that has, um, caused and led
to, uh, a number of deaths of uh,
football players. Um, and he says that
the NFL had not done anything uh, to do
more about awareness about that. We
heard from the NFL commissioner this
morning by statement. He said that one
of the NFL employees uh was one of the
victims in this is at the hospital now
was shot uh and was critically injured
but is expected to survive. He also said
they're going to be adding more security
here at 345 Park Avenue to keep their
staff safe. And he's also keeping the
staff home today.
>> Miles, there's a real question about how
somebody could be walking in plain
daylight with a massive rifle and not be
noticed or stopped. What are you hearing
about from law enforcement in terms of
how long he was tracked walking in the
open during the day with a massive
weapon?
>> Yeah. Driving to the scene this morning,
I passed by precinct that's only two
blocks away. Uh but there is very little
you can do to stop someone with a long
rifle, an M4, an AK, any of those kind
of things, uh if you just have a
handgun. And the cop who was in this uh
building along with the other cops, all
they were armed with were handguns. So
uh there is going to be a call for the
NYPD to start remploying those
specialized units. Strategic response
group, critical response command, two
anti-terrorism groups that travel around
the city to hightarget areas uh to make
sure that everything is okay. You know,
this really came to the forefront after
the shooting death of Brian Thompson.
And that happened, of course, just five
blocks away from here in December. Head
of United Healthc Care's insurance group
uh shot in the middle of Midtown
Manhattan early in the morning. And that
is what caused a lot of uh folks in the
corporate world to start bolstering
their security. And then you see what
happened here yesterday.
>> Mars Miller with the latest at the
scene. Mars, thank you, sir. Let's
extend the conversation with the former
FBI executive officer, Michael King, who
joins us now for more. Michael, welcome
to the program, sir. You've got two
decades plus experience with the NYPD.
For those not familiar with the process,
can you describe the process for us,
what took place overnight, what the NYPD
will be doing right now?
>> So, thank you for having me and my
condolences to the families of all
involved. Uh right now the investigation
should involve trying to nail down
exactly where this shooter came from. Uh
his motives, does he have a manifesto?
They have to now do uh video canvases to
go back backwards trying to find out
what direction he came from. Uh I I
heard he drove in from uh Vegas, which
is about 2500 miles, about a 40-hour
drive. So this is a very dedicated
person in what he wanted to do. They had
to go into his life, dig deep into his
life. They had to go into his social
media, his friends. I was told a vehicle
that he drove here has been uh
commandeered by the NYPD. That vehicle
has to be forensically uh evaluated.
They have to take that vehicle and
search it for evidence, of course. Uh
look for any documents that he left in
there, any notes, anything he wrote down
regarding what had happened. Another
thing that would be great would be to do
fingerprints and DNA swabs inside that
vehicle trying to find out who else was
in this vehicle with them because we
still have to nail down is this a
oneoff? This is a random event. Is this
just one person doing this by himself or
are there other people involved? So, you
really have to now dig deep into his
life because you can't uh interview him.
You can't interrogate him. You now have
to go into all his phones, his
computers, um, anything that he has
that's digit digital, you have to try to
find out, do phone forensics, computer
forensics, trying to find out what
information you can find on this person.
>> Michael, one theme we've been exploring
throughout this morning is the shifting
nature of threats. In your extensive
terrorism attack response experience,
can you talk to us about how the nature
of threats is developing, particularly
over the last 12 months with grievances
going to corporations and the
individuals that represent them and
unfortunately, tragically having deadly
consequences, Michael, what can we do?
What do we need to rethink to protect
these corporations and the securities
and the people that ultimately are
employed by them?
>> So, that's a great question. um someone
like this who we believe to be a lone
wolf. This is your your greatest threat.
This is someone who's sitting in a
basement somewhere. He's off the radar.
There's no chatter about him. Law
enforcement does not know about him.
When you look at his background, you see
that he has very minimal. It's not much.
No arrest, nothing. Uh someone like this
to protect against someone like this is
very very difficult. uh corporations uh
companies what they have to do is double
down on their not only their physical
security but their cyber security as
well. They have to have their buildings
protected, increase the amount of staff
they have in security. Um because again
when you have someone who's plotting
online, they're talking to other people.
They're talking to friends, family,
maybe mental health issues. Someone
makes a phone call to 911 saying, "Hey,
you got to look at this guy." When you
have someone sitting in the basement
quietly plotting, they're not they're
not online. They're not speaking to
anyone. This is your greatest lone wolf
threat.
>> Michael, there's a question about the
terrorist uh threat changing from some
sort of group activity to the lone wolf.
But to build on what John was asking,
there's also this idea of mass casualty
events in public gatherings versus
targeting specific corporations with
specific grievances. How much are you
seeing that becoming a trend or are we
just taking it a step too far after two
incidents?
>> So you have two incidents and I think
what we have here is not something
that's systemic right now. You have the
the two incidents with with the CEO
killing and now this and these are
people who have specific grievances
regarding specific companies. not
something that is more generalized to
say, well, we have someone going out
randomly choosing whatever company they
find. They just step out of their
vehicle with a gun and just randomly
started shooting. These are people who
have specific grievances. So, I think
when you look at it that way, the threat
is minimalized. is contained to just
someone who has that uh particular
grievance and not say someone who's
radicalized, someone who's acting or
inspired by a group like ISIS or al
Qaeda going out there just trying to
shoot and stab or run a muck within Time
Square. When you look at the weapon that
he had, he could have gone to any high
traffic location in New York and started
shooting. If you was 42nd Street, uh,
Union Square, lot of victims. A gun like
that can kill a lot of people in a few
seconds. This was something very
specific, something very targeted.
>> Why did this person have access to a gun
like that, especially given the fact
they had a mental health history and was
even uh, I believe accused in one
particular crime a while back. I mean,
how come somebody can legally have
access to a weapon of this power?
>> That's a great question. uh someone with
a mental health history. Now, the thing
is, do we know that his mental health
history was pronounced and that it was
something that was known or was it
something that he had he was diagnosed
but it was not made made aware to law
enforcement? To my understanding, he had
a gun permit issued by Las Vegas PD. So,
in issuing a gun permit, you would do a
background check on someone that would
uh include is this person uh a criminal?
Is does this person have a mental health
issue? For some reason, this man fell
through the cracks. His background did
not show any red flags. And in a state
where you're able to purchase a weapon
of this capacity without any problems uh
any issues very easily, there in lies
the problem. Access to weapons of mass
destruction like this. a a weapon like
this that is used in war is used by the
military should not be given or sold to
uh civilians because again the only
reason you could have a weapon like this
is to kill people.
>> Michael King, appreciate your time, sir.
The former FBI executive officer Michael
King there. Every single organization in
Midtown Manhattan and around this
country needs to completely rethink
security protocol,
>> especially if people have access to
militaryra weapons and potentially could
come in. How do you protect against that
with a traditional kind of handgun and
screening system where people badge in
and have some sort of semblance of
civilization? We'll have updates for you
throughout this morning right here on
Bloomberg TV with an update on stories
worldwide this morning, including our
top story with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahihira. Hey, Yahara.
>> Exactly, John. A gunman went on a
rampage in a Manhattan office tower
housing the NFL and Blackstone on
Monday, killing four people before
killing himself. The gunman was
targeting the NFL headquarters, but
ended up on the wrong floor. Police say
the suspect had a history of mental
illness and believed he had driven cross
country to New York. Meanwhile, UPS
shares are falling four and a quarter%
in the pre-market after it pulled its
guidance, citing macroeconomic
uncertainty. This after the company
reported mixed results in its last
quarter with its EPS narrowly missing
Wall Street estimates, but its package
revenue was better than expected. The
company is focusing on shipping fewer
high margin packages and cutting back on
less profitable deliveries.
And Whimo is partnering with AVIS to
launch a robo taxi service in Dallas
next year. Customers will be able to
order rides on Whimo's app while AVIS
will provide car management services
like infrastructure and maintenance.
Whimo has been aggressively expanding
more than doubling its service area in
Austin, Texas as it faces competition
from Tesla. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhra, thank you. More from Yhira in
about 30 minutes. Up next on the
program, extending talks with China. The
>> president's going to decide. Look, this
is how I want to play it. He may
entertain a few more deals or he may
decide, you know what? I'm just going to
set the policy going forward, but by the
end of this week, they will all be set.
They will all be in stone and they will
be written.
>> We've got some clarity and a lot of
people are getting a lot more bullish.
Mike Wilson of Morgan Stanley up next.
[Music]
Live from New York City. Welcome back to
the program. The gains continue. Up
another quarter of 1% on the S&P 500.
Six consecutive days of gains. Another
all-time high on the NASDAQ up by 0.5.
Under surveance this morning, extending
talks with China.
The president's going to decide, look,
this is how I want to play it. He may
entertain a few more deals or he may
decide, you know what, I'm just going to
set the policy going forward. But by the
end of this week, they will all be set.
They will all be in stone and they will
be written and we will start collecting
those additional monies. Right now,
we're collecting 10% from everybody in
the world and of course a higher rate
from China. But come next week, off we
go. Here's the latest this morning.
Trade talks between the US and China
stretching into a second day as
President Trump's Friday deadline
approaches. is the commerce secretary
Howard Lnik saying a 90-day truce
extension with China is likely. Mike
Wilson of Morgan Stanley is bullish,
writing, we're bullish into 26 through
the near-term setup is not without risk.
These include tariff related inflation.
Mike joins us now for more. Mike, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> You list a lot of reasons to be
constructive here. Just go through those
reasons for us this morning.
>> Yeah, I mean the reasons really haven't
changed. We've been very constructive
since May when we did our midyear
update. And I think the main thing to
take away from our outlook that's maybe
different than others. I think we came
into the year feeling the first half
would be tricky. Second half would be
better. Um and that was all a function
of the the sequencing of the policy.
Right? So the policy sequencing was what
we said they catch sink the first
quarter. They took they did the growth
negative stuff first and then it flipped
very quickly in April. So the main
reason we're bullish, okay, is that the
earnings revision breath and we show
this every week in our note and it goes
up every week has exploded higher off of
what was, you know, a deep cyclical low
that basically priced in a recession for
the most part. So that revision breath
is guiding us to the performance that
we've seen. This this is just to put it
in context. Okay, this increase or
V-shaped recovery in earnings revision
breath is as significant as we've seen
since COVID the COVID recovery and that
was the last time that we were this far
out of consensus being bullish and it
was right because of the it's the data
we're data dependent so that's the main
reason so this is not just me saying oh
momentum in stocks and price momentum
etc that's that's part of it too so
what's driving that earnings revision
breath well first it's the reflexivity
just on people getting too bearish on
the growth negative stuff and let's not
forget the AI cap FX cycle which we came
into the year feeling negative about
also bottomed in April. Okay, so those
are two big drivers. The second one is a
weaker dollar. Okay, weaker dollar is a
big tailwind for multinational
companies. Okay, and the third one now
is we're starting to see operating
leverage in more companies across the
S&P 500 and this is a very unique view
that we've had. So, you know, the
rolling recession call that we've kind
of been talking about. Well, now it
looks to us like we're having a rolling
recovery. Okay. and that will be further
spurred by the Fed cutting rates at some
point in the next year. Now, we don't
know exactly when they're going to
start, but I think it's fair to say that
they're not going to be raising rates.
So, this three-year what I would call
soft recession that we've been living
through now, we're sort of coming
through that and we're getting more
visibility on that. That's why we're
more constructive on the next year. Now,
in the next three months, I do think
that some of the things that people have
been worried about could start to play
through earnings. For example, we can
see cost of goods sold increase because
of the tariff. you know, the inventory
now is flowing through the cost of goods
sold. We can see the back end of the
Treasury market start to back up again
because of the supply that we know is
coming. And then, of course, we we still
have to deal with just the the the sort
of concern around inflation and how does
that play through? How does the Fed
respond to that? So, there are risks out
there. We're not saying there's no
risks. And remember, the market trades 6
months in advance. So, that's what's
happened. The market has figured this
out. It's gotten ahead of it, and we've
priced a lot of good news. How much is
this entirely tech-driven versus a
broadbased kind of revisions increase
and recovery given some of the mixed
guidance that we're getting this morning
from a number of companies particularly
those that are consumerf facing.
>> That's right. Well, it still remains
mixed because we're still in this
rolling recovery, right? So, it's not
everything at once. Tech and the Mag 7
are leading, but we're seeing also other
groups, industrials, financials, okay,
software, which has been in a soft
recession for the last couple years.
We're seeing we are we are seeing a
broadening out for the Mag 7. So it's
not it's not where we need to be to see
say oh we're going to move into small
cap stocks or we're going to move into
the lowquality parts of the market.
We're still staying up that curve.
However, it's starting to progress just
like the rolling recession saw
degradation that was kind not all at
once but kind of more peace meal.
>> So during the rolling recession we saw
gains of about 20% on the S&P 500 for a
couple consecutive years. Could you see
gains of 20% or more during a rolling
recovery? Does it matter if you're in a
rolling recession or rolling recovery in
terms of the returns?
>> What I would hope is that we would see
areas that have been lagging start to
participate more and that's that's sort
of our view on 26, right? And that's
sort of starting to happen now.
Industrials has been the best performing
sector year to date. It's been our top
pick for the right reasons for the
reasons that we've been citing which is
earnings there are starting to look
better. Let's not forget the tax bill
which I didn't even mention earlier.
This is a massive okay tailwind for cash
earnings for US companies. I mean to the
tune of 5 to 10% increase. So that's
real money going into the pockets of
companies. They're now allocating
capital, not the government. And I think
everybody would agree that that's
probably a better outcome.
>> Do you think US exceptionalism is back?
Is everyone else signing up to that?
>> Well, what I would say is that maybe US
exceptionalism has been missing. Okay.
So now I mean no one wants to admit
this, but the direction we're going in
now, it looks like we are going to see
better participation across the economy.
We've been waiting for this. We've been
waiting for this for two or three years.
You know, we've we've been kind of back
and forth, sometimes bullish, sometimes
bearish, trying to pick stocks, and this
is the first time I can say that I I can
now see the path of this transition
where we're actually starting to rotate
into more of an early cycle recovery.
>> Let me give you some more space to do
this because it's important. The
strategy of the White House and the
rebalancing that you envision a year
out, two years out, three years out,
what is it you see?
>> Well, the rebalancing is both global and
domestic. So, the global rebalancing is
obvious. are trying to reduce our
current account deficit, you know, get,
you know, the trade negotiations are
along those lines. And I think that's
right. I think that's a good strategy.
Getting more manufacturing potentially
uh inhouse or domestically in the
domestic uh rebalancing. It's really
instead of just having the 1%, right?
It's, you know, Main Street over Wall
Street. I mean, people say, well, that
doesn't sound like that's working right
now, but but the idea here is you get
lending through the regional banking
sector. you get lending, smaller banks,
lending to small businesses, to
individuals, get rates down at the back
end. Okay, that is that will liberate
actually the domestic econ the the sort
of the middle part of the economy.
>> Where do you then place this idea that
tariffs are pretty regressive? This idea
that lower income individuals bear the
brunt of it because it's essentially a
sales tax on them and you're already
seeing companies really grapple with
what that means for demand, particularly
in the travel and leisure space. How do
you square that with a sort of
broad-based dynamism that you're talking
about?
>> So, I think it's very simple in the
sense that you have to think, okay, what
do you have to think about what are the
tariffs trying to achieve? My view has
always been that this is going to end up
being an import tax. Now, I would have
said, you know, two weeks ago, this is a
10% it's going to end up a 10% import
tax that's going to be shared between
exporter, importer, and consumer. And
the market will determine, okay, who can
absorb those tariffs? Exporter will
decide, "Hey, we got a discount because
we're going to lose volume." Importer
will say, "We can't pass it on. We're
going to eat some of that." And the
companies that have pricing power will
pass it through. Okay? Now, we believe
that the consumer areas have less
pricing power. So, I would argue that
the pricing power is going to be more
probably in the industrial space,
probably more in the, you know, sort of
the the value added supply chain. So,
then what do they do on the other side?
Oh, they do a tax cut for the companies.
So, it's just a it's just basically
saying we're going to tax this chain
here, which is going to be a shared tax,
but then we're going to actually give
that away to corporations who can then
reinvest and actually get the economy
moving. It's I mean, it is a capitalist
type of of approach. Now, I don't know
if it's going to work perfectly, but I
like the direction of it from a from an
investor standpoint. I love this. Okay.
Now, I'm not here to make judgments
about who gets hurt the most or
whatever, and I don't really know, but I
can see the path and why we're more
constructive, why we've been more
constructive on the 12 month view. I
think remember last year you said, you
know, Mike, this is the first time I've
heard you sound a little more
constructive cuz I had that vision
>> is overwhelming this morning. Mike, I
got to get to a break. We all need a
break. Mike Wilson and Walking Standing.
Mike, appreciate it. Thank you, sir.
It's good to see you. Up next, the trade
conversation continues.
[Music]
Mike Wilson of Morgan Stanley on with us
just moments ago leaning into the bull
case. The bullcase 7200 on the S&P 500
over the next 12 months. He's not alone.
The gains continue. Equity futures up
this morning by 0.25% on the S&P
following six days of gains and looking
for day seven on the NASDAQ 100. High up
by 0.4. We're two hours away from the
cash open. Let's get you some morning
movers. Here's Danny Burker with more.
Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Some more earnings over the
past hour. The big one out of Europe. I
have the US ADRs up, but it is Novo
Nordisk. You'll see something similar in
the European trade too. Down 16.8%
nearing 17% this morning. It has cut its
sales guidance. A surprise to this
market. Now, Nova Nortis has been
struggling. A lot of competition for its
weight loss drugs. We go sales have been
weaker than expected. It hasn't ousted
its CEO. So the troubles continue there.
We also had some more earnings this
morning. This time coming from another
drug company that is Merc. An issue
there narrowing their fullear guidance
too. The problem for them is that their
key drug Kruda is going to be coming up
for generic soon. So they need a rush
and train strategy. So they're cutting
about $3 billion worth of cost. They're
going to be firing employees. They're
going to be reducing their real estate.
They say they're going to reinvest that
into looking for new drugs. Also an
issue with Garta sale sales in China. So
those shares falling 3 and a.5% to the
upside this morning though. We also
heard from JetBlue. The loss was lower
than expected. They say demand is coming
back. Their strategy of reworking
things, cutting unprofitable routes that
it is paying off for them. They're also
saying they're seeing a lot of demand
about two weeks out from when people are
flying. The president of JetBlue saying
that they are confident demand will
continue at pace into the second half of
the year. Those shares up 1.8%. John
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate the update.
Thank you very much. Boeing just
crossing just moments ago. But we'll
come to that in just a moment. We'll
catch up with Brook Southerntherland in
a couple of moments time. Just want to
get you an update on our top stories
worldwide on our radar this morning. A
gunman fatally shooting four people in a
Midtown Manhattan office building on
Monday evening. NYPD identifying the
shooter as a 27year-old man who drove to
New York from Nevada. Elsewhere, the
European Union's trade deal with the US
is facing backlash from European
leaders. The French prime minister
calling it a dark day. And the French
Minister for European Affairs saying the
deal cannot be sustainable
>> at a time when this is what you were
expecting yesterday and you raised this
point. This is what you have when you
get a European Union that's trying to
collectively decide exactly what a trade
agreement is going to look like at a
time where there aren't a lot of good
options with President Trump. We said
yesterday that equity that the uh
currency market was making the argument
for us that the US got the better deal
and now there are a number of different
sectors as well as leaders who are kind
of waking up to the at least popular
realization that that's what
>> two weeks ago we were surprised they'd
accept 10%. Two weeks later they've
accept 15% and said thank you
afterwards. It's kind of shocking what
took place over the weekend. And it's
pretty shocking that initially a couple
of the European auto manufacturers saw
their share prices pop and then they
fell dramatically as people started to
think about what this could mean for
them in terms of reduced uh income. So
again, people trying to figure out who
got the better end of the deal and what
this actually means for trade.
>> You're thinking of Stalantis. So let's
talk about Stalantis revealing it
expects to take a $ 1.7 billion hit from
tariffs this year. The new CEO sharing
the automaker will quote continue making
the tough decisions needed to
reestablish profitable growth. That
stock as you said is down this morning
by close to 4%.
>> Yeah. And they Jeffre was saying that
their guidance that they did reinstate
was incredibly vague. And one of the key
vague points was not necessarily the
Europeans and the US even though it's a
European company. It was Mexico. And
this idea that we're not done. We have a
lot more in terms of tariff negotiations
that are coming down the pike, including
Mexico, which has been one of the main
manufacturing hubs and back doors into
the United States, from other countries,
from China to the Europeans, and it
remains to be seen what that looks like.
>> Totally with you. I think most of us
would argue they're the two biggest
pieces of the puzzle. The US, Mexico,
Canada, and renegotiating USMCA over the
next 12 months. That is going to be a
huge effort to undertake
>> especially given how much supply chains
have rejiggered since some of the
tensions between China and the US to
Mexico in particular. You have to also
wonder if he is going to President Trump
is going to renegotiate USMCA which he
negotiated to the first place during his
first term. It also raises a question as
you were saying earlier how binding are
some of these agreements?
>> Big big questions for the future of
trade. Big questions for the future of
Boeing as well. Let's turn to those
earnings I mentioned just moments ago.
Joining us now is Bloomberg's Brook
Sutherland with more. That stock is up
by 2%. Brooke, what's the latest?
I
>> think this was a really strong quarter
for Boeing and, you know, one of the
strongest that they've had for quite
some time just given all of the
challenges that this company has. You
saw a really positive surprise on cash
flow, which just reflects the pace of
deliveries that the company was able to
pull off this past quarter. Uh
production on the 737 is finally at that
key 38 per month rate. That is the limit
that the FAA had set um in terms of how
many planes Boeing could put out a month
until the FAA was satisfied with uh its
factory processes. And so now sort of
the key thing to watch is going to be
does the FAA lift that limit and allow
Boeing to ramp up deliveries further and
improve that cash flow number even more.
Do we have a sense, Brooke, of how much
this is stemming from some of the trade
agreements that we've seen
internationally where Boeing seems to be
part and parcel of them in terms of uh
purchases of airplanes from the United
States rather than say a European
competitor that rhymes with bus?
>> That is definitely a big thing here. And
you know, it's funny because in the
first trade war, Boeing was really
complained about being a pawn between
the US and China because you saw China
halt deliveries as a way of, you know,
in increasing its leverage over the US.
And now you've really seen the reverse
where so many different countries are
looking to Boeing jets as a way of sort
of reducing that trade deficit,
improving that trade relationship with
the US. This is one of our highest value
exports. Um, and I think countries are
cognizant of that that you know, you buy
a couple of planes, rack up a, you know,
a couple hundred million dollars. That
that goes a long way. Um, especially in
the mind of President Trump when he's
negotiating these trade deals.
>> Brooke, appreciate your time. Stock is
higher by 2.5%. Who were you thinking
about?
>> It rhymes with bus.
>> It was really bad rhyme. Sorry. I
apologize.
>> Let's keep it on trade. The backlash
against Europe's trade agreement brewing
across the continent after striking a
trade deal with the United States.
Joining us now, someone with extensive
experience of all of this, the former
Bush trade representative, Susan Schwab.
Susan, good morning. It's good to see
you.
>> Good to be here.
>> Let's talk about how much things have
changed over the past few decades. How
surprised are you about where we are
compared to where we were?
>> Well, it it has been a dramatic change.
Obviously, it started during during the
first Trump administration and and
continued through the Biden
administration because that was sort of
a more abundant trade policy. Nothing
happened really for all intents and
purposes. And then the second Trump term
is very different from the first Trump
term. I mean including what appears to
be a a dramatic potentially dramatic
change in the USMCA terms of the USMCA.
Um which is going to be have a major
impact in a lot of how the supply chains
are are are designed. uh in fact a lot
of companies took their leads in terms
of where they were producing where they
were sourcing from in their supply
chains from the first Trump term and the
focus and the target of China. So
production moved to Vietnam, moved to
Malaysia, moved to other countries and
now the focus is on bilateral trade
deficits, bilateral trade deficits,
bilateral trade deficits and that's
changed the uh the focus. Um, I focus
more on the the trade plus the macro
side. This administration is less
concerned about or seems less focused on
the macro side, the like the deficit,
like the macro deficit um as distinct
from the trade deficit. But that's their
focus. And uh
>> hold on a second. Sorry to interrupt,
but this is actually something that a
lot of people have brought up, including
Mike Wilson and Peter Shear, saying that
actually these revenues coming from the
tariffs do offset the trade deficit. And
from the macro perspective, what you're
seeing the stock market say is that
companies can adapt and adjust to a lot
of these tariffs and pass it along or
else absorb it on their bottom line.
What are you seeing that makes you
question that?
>> Oh, I I think I think that these are
attacks. Definitely these are tax and
the tax is going to go into the coffers
of the treasury. Question is who's
paying the tax uh most of that tax
ultimately is going to be paid by the
consumer? Um and how much tax is being
collected? And the answer is a fraction
of what we're running up in the way of
the federal debt and what we have in
place in the federal I mean the the
federal debt deficit. So, uh, if you
think about the most dramatic estimates
that are out there, let's say you're
looking at the 300 billion a year
number, that is a drop in the bucket
compared to what we're spending annually
and what the projection is. So, yes, it
it is a contribution. Um, and how are
you making up that contribution? You're
taxing your citizens. A lot of people
have looked at this as in some ways a
win for President Trump given
particularly how high of a rate the US
secured with Europe after talking
previously about a 10% rate. What are
you seeing in the negotiations and the
terms that we're hearing albeit somewhat
rough? Uh that gives you a sense of
whether there is a winner, whether there
is a loser or what your questions are
going forward.
>> Well, the the winner and loser question
is a really great question. I think that
the winner loser is uneven first of all
and you can't totally assess it because
uh as as you implied there's going to be
a change in in exchange rates that will
adjust somewhat uh that 15%. Then you're
going to have the the tariff the tax uh
split between the exporter the importer
the ultimate consumer. I mean we know
more than a third of of what we import
goes to an intermediate consumer right?
So, it's a manufacturer uh that is
importing steel, aluminum. They're
paying 50% more than what they were
paying before. And under the radar
things, something that a lot of people
aren't looking at are the 232 quote
derivatives, right? So, derivatives,
hundreds, at the moment, they're pending
900, I don't know, 45 uh product
requests to raise tariffs uh by 25% on
steel and aluminum derivatives. We know
that, you know, cans with beer in them
are already there, but but cans um that
that have aerosol, anything that comes
in aerosol can, that's on the table
potentially for tariff increases, those
that did not exist in the first Trump
administration. The derivatives of all
of these copper, aluminum, steel, and
then you've got all of the other section
232 cases coming down the, you know,
coming down the pike, autos, auto parts,
and so on.
So, um, you've got you've got autos,
auto parts, excuse me. You've got
pharmaceuticals coming down the pike, so
on. So,
that will impact consumers who clearly
are losers, right? If you're buying a
car, if you're building a house, if
you're trying to outfit a house, if you
are right now consumer goods, uh,
getting your kid ready for school this
fall, those are very, very specific
examples.
um in terms of quote inflation the
overall you know calculation because
that's a technical calculation that may
or may not show up in the near term uh
it's starting to show up a little bit I
I don't think given the volatility uh I
think retailers are doing everything
they can not to push that through to
consumers at some point they won't be
able to hold off anymore let's say I
don't know third quarter I'm not sure it
depends on the retailer um or it'll show
and or it shows up in earnings.
>> It's why the core of the Federal Reserve
is in wait and see mode. And we're about
to hear the same thing again tomorrow
afternoon
>> because ultimately we don't know how
much there is going to be some sort of
inflationary impact. And right now we're
not seeing a real reason for them to cut
rates in terms of the labor market. So
that's their justification even despite
the fact that we heard from President
Trump yesterday. Well, they're going to
cut rates. They should
>> eventually maybe at some point, but we
don't know. Susan, can I finish with you
just on China and your experience of
dealing with China and the push at the
moment to get them to rebalance is not
new. This has been going on for decades.
Why are we finding it so difficult when
most people assume also they agree it's
good for them? Why don't they seem to
get it? Why is this becoming such a big
challenge?
>> It's it's always been a big challenge. I
think uh we needed to take a hard line
with China earlier on than we did. we
needed to force them to play by the
rules earlier than we did. Uh I think
this administration has underestimated
or overestimated let's say put it that
way uh the leverage that the US market
represented in their negotiations
and the Chinese they have their own
politics they have their internal
politics and it's hard making tough
decisions and their tough decisions in
terms of generating domestic more
domestic demand are harder than
stimulating exports and they're
overcapacity problem quite frankly is an
economic mistake and they are year in
and year out exporting their economic
mistakes and the rest of us are paying
for it. And so one of the interesting
things in the negotiations that the
administration is doing with other
countries that we don't we don't know
any details of of these deals, right?
There's only one that's been signed.
We've got we've got some some social
media posts. We've got some White House
announcements. One of the interesting
things that pops up is how some of our
key trading partners are going to treat
uh their imports of
overcapacity products
from countries unnamed countries that
will be very interesting. Obviously we
want to prevent transipment that is the
key in terms of the negotiation with
Mexico.
>> Yep. that. So, I think that's a a very
very potentially very important element
of what the administration is trying to
do. But in the meantime, China is is um
China plays hard ball with everybody and
they're clearly playing hard ball with
us and I'm not sure we're taking as hard
a line with them as we could.
>> Interesting. Susan, got to leave it
there. It's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Thank you very much. Susan
Schwab there, e former Bush Bush trade
representative with an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with some of our
top stories worldwide with our Bloomberg
brief. Here is Yahara anhara.
>> Hi John. A gunman opened fire inside a
Manhattan office tower housing the NFL
and Blackstone, killing four people
before killing himself. Authorities say
he intended to target the NFL but ended
up on the wrong floor. A manifesto found
on him and social media posts reveal an
obsession with CTE and anger toward the
NFL over how it handles head injuries.
Meanwhile, Boeing shares are rising 2
and a half% in the pre-market after the
plane maker beat estimates on revenue
and reported smaller than expected
losses for the second quarter. The US
jet maker also won more orders so far
this year than rival Airbus. It's its
European rival delivering 280 aircraft
in the first half, the most in that time
frame since 2018. Boeing showing signs
of stabilization, but you can't say the
same for Novo Nordis. Those shares are
plunging down 26% after it lowered its
financial forecast in an unscheduled
update. The drug maker slashed its sales
and profit outlook, blaming slower
demand for its key weight loss drug,
WGOI. While Novo did say a new contract
with CVS would help drive volume
starting July 1st, it's still facing
pressure from Eli Liy's rival drug,
Zetbound. Dr. Bloomberg Reef John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, the big question
for big tech.
>> It is about tech and I think it's
something to keep an eye on. the the
question of whether you know the capex
spend whether that has goes into
earnings and roe right and that's the
big question out there that's what's
been driving the markets really for the
last decade the last 15 years
>> up next Dominick Rizzo of Troll Price
from New York City you're watching
Bloomberg V.
[Music]
Yep. And about a few hours away, equity
futures doing okay. Positive by 0.2% on
the S&P. On the NASDAQ 100 up by 0.4.
four and a savas this morning the big
question for big tech
>> it is about tech and I think it's
something to keep an eye on the the
question of whether you know the capex
spend whether that has goes into
earnings and roe right and that's the
big question out there I think for the
market that question must be answered in
the positive otherwise there is risk in
the S&P here that's what's been driving
the markets really for the last decade
the last 15 years
>> it's the latest this Morning. Investors
looking for returns on big tech spending
on AI. Meta and Microsoft reporting
tomorrow. Apple, Amazon on Thursday.
Dominic Rizzo of Troll Price writing,
"The White House AI action plan and the
big beautiful bill is going to
supercharge the spending environment.
Expect big capex numbers out of
Microsoft, Amazon, and Meta." Dominic
joins us now for more. Dominic, welcome
to the program. Can we put some numbers
on big? Just how big and how tolerant
are investors going to be of those
investments?
First off, great to see you guys. Thanks
for having me. Look, let's take a look
at what's happening in technology so far
this earning season. It's really a tale
of two cities, right? If you're tied to
AI, everything has been incredibly
strong. If you've been tied to anything
else, smartphone, PCs, auto industrial,
frankly, it's been quite tepid. And I
think Google's a really good example of
what we may see in the Microsoft and the
Amazon and Metaprints. Let's let's look
at those Google numbers. Google Cloud
grew 32% year-over-year in the quarter.
Google Cloud Platform probably grew
closer to 37 or 38%. And they took their
capac x numbers up 10 billion from 75
billion to 85 billion. That represents
65% year-over-year growth. And despite
all this, they're still going to
generate $70 billion of free cash flow.
So when I look at what's probably going
to happen out of the likes of Meta,
Amazon, and Microsoft this quarter, I
think we're going to see some pretty big
capex numbers. I think we're on a path
to 100 billion at Microsoft. I think
we're on a path to over a h 100red
billion at Amazon. We're probably on a
path to 80 billion at Meta. Um and I do
think that these companies are getting
high ROE on this spend.
>> Dominic, do you think shareholders will
reward this type of spending plan or do
you think that they're going to penalize
it as they did a couple of months ago?
>> Well, I think it really comes down to
are you seeing the revenue growth that
goes with that capex growth, right? And
so like I said at Google we definitely
saw that in those Google cloud numbers
at meta I mean the question is are we
going to see 17 eight 18% topline growth
that definitely justifies this level of
capex spend at Azure at Microsoft are we
going to see closer to 36 37% growth or
33 my gut is we're going to be north of
35% on Azure and at AWS are we going to
see 181 19% growth or 16 and I think
we're going to be closer to 1819. So you
put it all together, I think investors
will reward it. But frankly speaking,
who's the winner in all of this, right?
It's the chip companies. It's the
Nvidia's, AMDs, and Broadcoms of the
world.
>> Dominic, at what point do the weaker
hands get that much weaker as the
stronger hands invest more and more? And
I'm thinking, for example, of Apple, not
to mention Tesla, some of the biggest
losers when it comes to share price so
far this year. How much does that just
get exacerbated by the ability and
willingness to spend on the part of the
really stronger hands?
>> Well, I actually think those are two
pretty different stories. So, Apple is
tied to smartphones, right? And upgrade
rates at smartphones are at record lows.
What we've seen at the likes of
T-Mobile, Verizon, AT&T last quarter is
frankly speaking, people are just not
upgrading their phones. And and and why
would they, right? There's really no
reason to right now because Apple
intelligence is not adding any dramatic
more value in your day-to-day life. So,
I expect tepid growth on the smartphone
side out of Apple. Let's see if they can
make a big capital allocation decision
that can get them out of this problem.
Let's not forget this is still one of
the companies with one of the largest
cash flow balances in the whole world
and they can use that cash to go do
something productive like maybe partner
with anthropic and pay up to have a nice
large language model behind Siri or buy
someone like a perplexity. So, let's see
what ends up happening there. At Tesla,
I think it's actually quite a different
story. What's happening with Tesla right
now is just there's just a lot of
uncertainty around big purchases and
interest rates are relatively high. So I
actually think Tesla is quite ahead in
the AI race whether it comes to full
autonomous driving or whether it comes
to partnerships with things like Elon's
Gro which has a very very strong large
language model. So I think that's a
little bit different than the Apple
story but I think you're hitting on a
very important point which is the AI
strategy at all these companies is the
most important thing for all of these
management teams. Dom, just a final
question on Apple. You said wait and
see. Do you want to hold a stock in a
portfolio if your view at the moment is
wait and see?
>> Well, what I'm trying to do across all
my strategies is create an all-weather
technology strategy, right? Trying to
capture the upside and blunt the
downside of, frankly speaking, what
could end up becoming quite a
speculative market, right? I think AI
has the potential to be the biggest
productivity enhancer for the global
economy since electricity. Productivity
enhancing technologies come with
speculative bubbles. How do you navigate
those responsibly, right? And so if you
look how I try to do it with Apple, I'm
underweighted in the strategy, but it is
also quite a durable name. It has quite
good upside downside capture. So you
have to think about how underweight you
actually want to go. Domo, appreciate
the input. Thank you, sir. Dominic Rizzo
there of T- Road Price looking ahead to
some big earnings still to come over the
next few days. Yeah, the tale of two
cities has been reflected very much in
uh just share uh share performance so
far this year. I am curious about how
much you are going to see a reversal of
some of the uh concepts that people were
talking about where spending is a good
thing and it's rewarded by the market at
least plans for capex from the likes of
Amazon and Microsoft.
>> Depends who you are, right?
>> Exactly.
>> Meta apparently it's great. Hundreds and
hundreds of millions of dollars on
employment contracts.
>> Yeah, but that's exactly the point. How
much do they get that much stronger
because they have that kind of money
that they can invest in talent and take
that talent from the weaker hands i.e.
Apple. And how much of an upper hand
does that give them when it comes to the
next leg of AI?
>> They are behaving like they're facing an
existential risk. We'll talk more about
that in the next hour. Coming up, Kevin
Gordon of Charles Swab, Zack Waring of
CFRA, Steven Stanley of Santand looking
for zero on payrolls Friday. Don't miss
that. And the new biggest bull on Wall
Street, John Stalus of Oppenheimer. He
joins us next.
[Music]
>> There's just a lot going on, I think, in
a positive way.
>> A lot of the uncertainty that was
prevalent earlier in the year is really
being washed out of the system right
now.
>> Yes, you might see a slowdown in
economic growth, but you're still seeing
really like resilient results from
companies.
>> The AI theme has kicked back in. The
market's just in a particularly joyous
place right now going into August.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> The up and down 90 minutes away. Equity
futures positive by 0.25%
on the S&P. On the Nasdaq 100 up by 0.5,
all-time highs coming into Tuesday as
the Fed's two-day meeting begins.
Concludes tomorrow on Wednesday. Data on
Friday. Payroll's just around the
corner. And in between lots of earnings
through Wednesday and Thursday, four of
the biggest names in tech. You'll hear
from Meta, Microsoft, Apple, and Amazon.
>> You said earlier the calm before the
storm because we do get so much data and
so many earnings for such a huge
proportion of the overall US index, but
it certainly has been calm and it could
continue to be. We've seen a move of
less than 1% for more than a month in
the US equity indexes. is and it raises
the question is it just a a sort of
meltup driven by a couple of names and
you have a really bifurcated market
that's coming to the four in all sorts
of other places as well. It's a it's a
very interesting moment to be really
looking at this.
>> How relevant is the Morris meeting for
the Federal Reserve and Chairman Pal
relevant to the White House? I get that
and relevant to all the economists
tracking this story but for equity
market participants right now bullish
this market. How relevant is this
meeting? The one relevant aspect is
going to be the jockeying for the
position for Fed chair next year. Do we
have a sense of who is on the slate of
potential candidates and what they're
willing to say to potentially get the
ear of the president? In other words,
how politicized will the Fed be and what
kind of rate cutting path are they going
to be on in 2026?
>> FA Jake Pal coming up tomorrow
afternoon. Look out for that news
conference and decision and special
coverage right here on Bloomberg TV.
Equity futures at the moment positive by
0.25% on the S&P 500. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Kevin Gordon
at Charles Swab with stocks at all-time
highs. Steven Stanley of Santandere
looking for zero zero payrolls coming up
on Friday, apparently according to
Steven. Plus, we'll catch up with John
Sto of Oppenheimer with the most bullish
forecast on the street for the S&P 500.
We begin this hour though with our top
story, a city in shock. A gunman taking
four lives in a shooting at an office
tower in Midtown Manhattan. Joining us
now is Bloomberg's Miles Miller who has
more. Miles, breaking news just moments
ago.
>> That's right. We just have confirmed the
death of a Blackstone executive. Her
name is Wesley Laner and well known uh
in corporate circles and also
philanthropy. Here at Blackstone, she
ran their real estate investment trust
and was a part of the uh executive
committee as it relates to investments.
uh outside of here had done so much work
in the community on the board of the
Met, on the board of the Hesshel School,
a Jewish day school here in in the city,
on the board of the U.J Federation, uh
doing so much that she could in the
community uh to make New York a better
place. And it is here where she was
leaving work when she was shot and
killed yesterday. Let's set the scene
again. 6:30 uh about yesterday, guy
pulls up in a BMW, pulls out an M4 rifle
and starts firing into the headquarters
of Blackstone and the headquarters of
the NFL and KPMG. He thinks he's making
his way upstairs to the NFL offices
because he had an axe to grind with the
NFL because he said he had CTE.
Meanwhile, he'd never played for the
NFL. He made his way up to the Ruden
management group which is a REIT here in
Manhattan and that is where he opened
fire shooting another person and then
ultimately killing himself. He killed an
NYPD officer and shot an NFL employee.
We know that Blackstone and the NFL have
their employees working from home today
and they are really issuing their
condolences uh in relation to the people
who have been killed here including that
Blackstone executive. Mars Miller with
the latest on the scene. Mars, thank
you, sir. Just absolutely tragic. It
goes without saying that our thoughts
are with her family and everyone at
Blackstone this morning. This is an
incredibly difficult thing to cover and
I will say that everyone is just hoping
a for some solace uh for those families
that were affected but b for some
comfort that this isn't going to happen
again with some questions swirling about
why an individual with a history of
mental illness had this type of weapon
and how we can continue with the
security that this will not happen at
another uh in any other place.
>> In just a moment we cross over to Yhara
Anard and get you an update on what's
happening on the ground and any more
headlines in between. will bring them to
you. If you are interested in what's
happening with financial markets right
now, futures are just about positive by
0.25% with stocks looking for a seventh
all-time high. Kevin Gordon of Charles
Schwab has a view. In arguably the
biggest economic data week of the year,
it all comes down to labor. Solid labor
data will matter most for markets. Kevin
joins us now for more. Kevin, good
morning.
>> Nice to see you.
>> Difficult morning.
>> Yeah,
>> without a doubt. But we'll make some
space to talk about financial markets.
Let's talk about why the data for you is
so important this week when we've got so
many earnings elsewhere.
>> Yeah. Well, I think I would I would wrap
earnings in with the broader economic
data, especially on the labor front
because, you know, the the real
mechanism that we're looking for in
trying to see and assess with trade and
tariffs is if any of that starts to take
a big bite out of hiring, when you think
about company's largest cost being
labor, if that's where they turn to, if
they face a significant increase in
costs, and if that's ultimately what
brings the broader labor market uh to a
weaker spot. so far, you know, not the
case. And I think even with, you know,
the June jobs report, um, even if you
get a reversal in some of those, I'll
call them blips that were in there in
terms of what accounted for most of the
hiring at the state and local level, at
the education level, the fact that the
unemployment rate went down because you
had the significant drop in the labor
force, even if some of that unwinds a
little bit, you can still be in a pretty
solid spot for July. So really it turns
to that back half of the year where you
start to see if at all um if there are
impacts from from tariffs if they're
going to start biting that's where you
really start to see it.
>> One of the reasons why I've been more
excited for earnings than I have been
for the economic data is because every
time an economic data point comes out I
get 15 different interpretations and
people point to different aspects of the
numbers to justify why they have those
opinions. Why do you feel like we're
getting better data from the overall
governmentissued numbers rather than
Merc laying off workers today because of
efficiencies? A number of big
corporations not hiring entry-level
staff because they can just get AI to do
it.
>> Well, you know, it's interesting. We in
some ways we've sort of seen this movie
before where in in at least in the
post-pandemic cycle and I was thinking
back to you know the conversation you
guys had with Mike Wilson on the last
hour talking about how you and we had
the same view around rolling recessions
uh you know being in certain pockets of
the economy especially manufacturing
versus services over the past several
years. Embedded in that were a lot of
these sort of idiosyncratic company
specific stories where there were
significant layoffs or there were
significant cuts to guidance but that
didn't filter through uh to the broader
economy. It didn't really rise up. So to
some extent you're seeing that again now
and I would argue actually one of the
reasons that we've seen such a an sort
of incredible recovery in the market is
because what's been leading have been
industries not necessarily at the 11
sector level. If you look at the 25
industry level, industries with the
strongest margins um have been leading.
So those are the ones that can probably
withstand that tariff shock a lot more
or they're further away from the
epicenter of the tariffs. So you think
the banks are almost the perfect example
of that in this earning season. I would
almost put the banks and the autos on
opposite sides of the spectrum looking
at where the tariff pressure has shown
up. You're not really seeing it at all
in financials because you probably won't
given it services dominated, but you're
definitely seeing it in an area like
autos. But that's a small share of the
market. You sound a lot more skeptical
than Mike Wilson of Morgan Stanley who
came on and said, "We had been dealing
with a rolling recession for three
years. Now we seem to be dealing with a
rolling recovery, a rolling bull
market." Why? Why are you not convinced?
>> Well, it's not as much that I'm not
convinced. I just think that when you
listen to what companies have been
saying around pricing and what their
response is going to be to tariffs in
particular and the capex slowdown that
we have seen at least in capex
intentions um even though some of the
regional Fed surveys which is sort of
the best gauge that we have right now in
terms of where confidence you know can
be turning on a dime because they come
out before the ISM. Um headline indexes
have been improving but those underlying
capex components haven't been improving
as sharply and in some cases they've
actually been turning lower. And in some
ways this all really comes down to what
is what what happens at the business in
the business investment channel. Um
because that tends to drive you know
employment gains which tends to drive
consumer spending that drives overall
productivity. So that's really what
we've become most focused on. So it's
not that I think that the recovery is
completely stunted because our view from
a tariff standpoint and we have to
remember that pre-appril 2nd we were not
in a zero tariff world. I mean the
market was still digesting that we were
going to get tariffs going up relatively
you know significantly. So if we're
going to go into a tariff world and what
we've been hearing from our clients who
are facing this in terms of having small
businesses is just tell us what the rate
is and don't change it. Uh you know tell
us what the rules of the game are and
then we'll be able to play. So if you
can get past that which arguably we're
coming to that point whether it's this
Friday or not or August 12th or not. Um
you're getting closer to that point
which I think is a pretty important
needle mover for the market and for the
economy.
>> We're in the middle of that process
right now. What started before April 2nd
though was this allocation abroad to
international equities. Is that just the
moment in time or an ongoing story? How
do you feel about European stocks right
now following the agreement over the
weekend?
>> I mean, we're relatively constructed
because I think well, first of all, from
our perspective from our clients, uh,
you know, nearly 40 million people who
for many many years have become very
accustomed to just the US dominant trend
really being trend for good reason. But
I think that when the international
versus US or you know US versus ex US
argument is often talked about or
discussed it's framed in this context of
all or nothing um and it's you know just
dump US at the expense of everything
else. And of course you know that's
never how this works for any kind of
balanced portfolio. So it's really a
matter of looking at what has become
maybe a little bit of a improved
opportunity set relative to what was. So
if you're just looking at Europe for
example, relative to what was yeah
clearly things have improved. Even the
internals of the DAX um those have been
much stronger this year relative to the
S&P. At one point you got to a third of
almost a third of members in that index
making a new 52- week high. We have not
gotten there on the S&P 500. So there
are still relatively healthy internals
um when you compare to the US. But I
wouldn't looking at it at all as some
sort of all or nothing trade.
>> To be fair to people who have been long
exclusively the US for the last decade,
there have been many many good reasons
to have that trade on. I think they
still face the same question. When I buy
America, I know what I'm buying. When I
buy Europe, what do I own? What am I
buying?
>> Well, yeah, the sector bias, I think, is
really important there because yeah,
when you're when you're in the US, I
mean, the tech ccentric nature of this
market now, not just tech the sector,
but tech and tech adjacent parts of it.
I mean, you're getting to half and in
some cases more than half of of the
index. Plus, tech has become more of
this cyclical beast um in addition to
being a growth beast as well. So I think
that that's a really important certainly
has been an important driver of
outperformance over the past several
years. But when you compare that to
Europe, if it's a little bit more
financial centric in certain countries
or if it's a little bit more, you know,
auto and manufacturing centric, if you
don't get that important cyclical
upswing, then it's going to be really
tough to outperform.
>> What is it you always say?
>> Luxury and weight loss.
>> That's right.
>> And right now weight loss is kind of,
you know, on the back foot evidently
with Novo. So
>> luxury too.
>> Exactly. So there you go. Although it's
different between Hermes and LVMH. It
seems like a totally different
situation.
>> What's gone wrong with luxury?
>> Yeah,
>> you would know.
>> Well, it is bifrocated. I mean, I'm not
a luxury analyst, but you know, it's a
way. Yeah, I I think that, you know,
maybe I'll just leave it at that. I
don't know.
>> Sensible. All right. All right.
>> Keep you out of trouble. Kevin, thank
you. Good to see you. Thank you, sir.
Kevin Gordon there of Chiao Swap. Let's
give an update on stories worldwide with
our Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara
Armen. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Blackstone confirmed one of
its employees was among the victims of
yesterday's deadly shooting in a
Manhattan office tower. A gunman opened
fire inside, killing four people before
taking his own life. Authorities say he
intended to target the NFL's
headquarters, also in the building, but
ended up on the wrong floor. Meanwhile,
US Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik says
a 90-day extension of a trade truce with
China is likely. Negotiations between
the two countries are still underway in
Stockholm with Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant leading talks for the US. Key
sticking points include fentinel
trafficking and concerns around China
purchasing sanctioned oil from Russia
and Iran. Meanwhile, take a look at
Stalantis shares. They are falling three
and a half% in early trading. The
automaker shared it expects to take a
$1.4 billion hit from tariffs in the
second half of this year. This after
Stalantis recorded a near $350 million
impact from tariffs and lost production
in the first half. Shares have been
struggling down over 25% this year.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you very much.
More from Yhara in about 30 minutes
time. Up next, the morning calls plus
Zack Waring of CFR saying retailers will
have to share the cost of tariffs with
the consumer. That conversation up next.
[Music]
One thing I think we're missing right
now is part of what's driven I think
this US stock market return is the
weakness in the dollar, right? DXY is
down significantly. You look at
European, you know, stock markets. For
US dollar investor, they're up
significantly more because of that. So,
I think the weak dollar if that starts
reversing that will actually put some
pressure on US stocks. I do think we're
resilient. I think it's about the growth
story. Peter Cher of Academy Securities
slightly constructive on a range of
issues, but he thinks it's too soon to
tell too soon to tell the impact of
higher tariffs and he's not alone. We'll
have that conversation in just a moment.
Equity futures positive by 210 of 1% on
the S&P on the NASDAQ 100 up by 0.45.
That's the price action. Your morning
calls look like this. First up, Bank of
America raising its price target on AMD
to 200, saying it has a comfortable
average selling price premium over
Intel. Next up, CFR upgrading Alaska
Rare to buy, seeing upside potential in
its three-year strategic plan. And
finally, RBC raising its price target on
Tesla to 325, citing a better thanex
expected robo taxi launch. That's the
latest on Tesla. Their stock is up by or
rather down by 0.3%. Elsewhere, we turn
to another read on the consumer on deck
for 10 a.m. Eastern time. Bloomberg's
Michael McKe joins us now for more. Good
morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, you take a
look at that chart you just showed and
you can see that consumer confidence has
been falling. The question is, what does
that really tell us? We tend to watch
what consumers do, not what they say.
That's the old Allen Greenspan line.
Because there isn't a huge correlation
between the two. Confidence and spending
data only modestly correlated. The
fundamentals will tell you pretty much
the same thing as the data. The
correlation has also weakened since the
pandemic. If uh you're a statistics
nerd, basically the R squared is around
3/10 at this point. So there is some
statistical validity but not a whole lot
of predicted power there. Uh people
thinking it uh is easy to get a job has
been falling and that's what really
drives the conference board numbers. Uh
we'll see what that comes out with
today. The problem of course is that the
jobs report is on Friday. So these
numbers come out a little too early for
that. But the conference board does
track buying intentions and they have
been very mixed. Uh there's been little
change in intentions to buy cars, but
there are fewer people who say they want
to buy homes and more people who say
they want to buy appliances. Kind of the
interesting question for the numbers
that come out today is last month fewer
people said they want to buy air
conditioners after the heat wave we've
seen. That may change in uh the numbers
at 10:00 this morning.
>> Mike, before you go, uh and and it's
great to see a summary of what we're
expecting. Can you give us a sense of
the quality of the data and the survey
responses and how much there is an
increasing estimation of what the
numbers should be rather than actual
measurement in the US economy? Well, the
conference board obviously as is the
University of Michigan are private
surveys, but in terms of the actual data
we're getting these days, we're having
more estimation particularly for
consumer prices where the Bureau of
Labor Statistics has to estimate prices
in some categories because they don't
have enough people now to do the actual
surveys. The accuracy is still very
strong, but it's not uh what it was. Uh
and they do their best to statistically
adjust the numbers. It's just one more
problem that the Fed and others face in
trying to figure out what's going on
with the economy.
>> Michael McKe, thank you, sir. We'll come
back to you a little bit later. Mike,
thank you. Let's stick with the
consumer. Zack Waring of CFR writing,
"The consumer is holding in as long as
employment remains stable. Retail hasn't
seen the full impact of tariffs yet."
Zack joins us now for more. Zack,
welcome to the program. Are you
suggesting the tariff test is still
ahead of us?
>> Yeah, thanks for having me. Uh yeah, we
do we do see, you know, kind of coming
into results, creeping into results in
the second half of the year. Um and you
really haven't had any trade deals yet.
So, you really aren't sure what that,
you know, kind of final rate is going to
be. Um you've got a couple of deals on
the table. Um but nothing's really
signed signed in stone yet. So, you
know, we really think you're going to
start to see it at the end of the second
half and in into 2026. How much Zach do
you think the companies are prepared for
this and have the pricing power to
actually respond to this versus taking
it on the margins like we're seeing in
some places particularly in travel
particularly with Proctor and Gamble uh
with an increased estimate for what kind
of uh tariff hit they were going to take
this morning.
>> Yeah, I think it's going to be company
by company based. You know, I think
companies that have strong brands that
are performing well right now can pass
on some of those costs to consumers. And
then you have other brands that aren't
doing so well and the, you know,
lower-end consumers not holding up as
great and those companies will probably
have to eat some or most of those cost.
Um, you know, it's not as simple as
just, you know, it's a 20% tariff coming
out of this country. We're going to have
to mark our products up 20%. You know,
that's not how the consumer operates.
Um, and you know, economics is a little
more, you know, complicated than that.
How much are uh Zach, how much are
retail companies moving production back
to the United States or moving
production at all in response to some of
these threats given it's not clear what
the rate is going to settle out at in
any given place in the world?
>> Yeah, I mean that's you're not seeing it
very often. I mean you've have companies
that have manufacturing in the US
already that are you know kind of
reinvesting and you know maybe bringing
some more supply online here. Um, but
you're not seeing like, you know, for
instance, apparel and footwear
manufacturers haven't just picked up
their manufacturing and moved it back to
the US. And I don't think you'll see
that. Um, at least not in the near
future. You I think as soon as
automation kind of catches up and
companies are able to, you know, bring,
you know, production here at the same
cost as they do in Asia, then, you know,
you might see more manufacturing come to
the United States. But you're just not
seeing it for, you know, companies that
have no exposure to the US. Zach, some
companies are better at managing
inventory than others, and I'm thinking
about some landmines that we've hit over
the past few years, and Target comes up
repeatedly. As we work our way through
earning season, are there a few
companies that you've got your eye on
that you're a little bit worried about?
>> Yeah, you know, I think a lot of these
companies have have done well in recent
years. Obviously, there are some um
that, you know, have kind of blown up on
on themselves in recent years, but you
know, I think overall, you know, the
retail industry has has really done a
good job of of, you know, coming back
from the COVID chaos um and and
inventory there. Um you know, we really
think that, you know, companies are
going to probably bring a lot of
inventory in quicker. Um so, you might
see some inventory issues creep in after
the holidays. Um but I think, you know,
and that would just be from over
orderering, you know, to kind of beat
some of the tariffs. you know,
potentially. But, um, you know,
currently I I don't see a lot of issues
in the inventory situation.
>> Zach, are there some business models
that just don't make sense anymore? And
I'm thinking of some of these producers
that were just relying on cheap labor
abroad to make apparel and bring it over
to the United States. And in my mind,
I'm not sure that's a sustainable
business model anymore.
>> No, you're right. I I agree. Um, you
know, it's going to be difficult now
with the new tariff rates. you're just
not going to have I think it's really
going to hurt the really lowcost items.
Um you know I think of some of the
Chinese um you know dollar $5 brands
that you know have really come up in
recent years. I think they're going to
struggle um because you know 30% there
makes a really big difference. Um
obviously we don't know their rates out
of China yet but I think they'll
probably be impacted the most.
>> Zach, who do you think the big winners
are?
>> So we really like big large global
players. you know, I think they have the
ability to, you know, they get generate
a lot of their revenues outside of the
US. So, you know, even if there is a big
tariff impact, it'll be just on a small
portion of their revenues. Um, we like
players that have negotiating power. So,
the larger players again have more
negotiating power with suppliers. And
then obviously the brands that have
momentum. Um, you know, I kind of think
of Hoka, um, on you know, some of those
brands that have really done well in
recent years. They have the ability to
raise prices on consumers.
>> Over the past couple of years, there's
been a theme where the strong keep on
getting stronger, the big keep on
getting bigger. And I'm talking about
corporate America. I'm also talking
about uh consumer balance sheets. Do you
expect that to only continue and then
some based on what an upper hand some of
these bigger multinationals have?
>> Yes, you do. And retail uh especially
because of their negotiating power
compared to you know small businesses
from the US. you know, someone who buys,
you know, a h 100,000 of a certain item
have much less purchasing power than a
Nike um who, you know, buys millions and
millions of, you know, certain items and
goods. So, you know, we think that's
this is going to make it worse.
>> Hey, Zach, appreciate the input. Thank
you, sir. Zach Waring there of CF. The
tariff test is still ahead of us and
there's going to be some losers, some
major losers, that's for sure.
>> And we're already seeing that on a
stockbytock basis. Some companies coming
out uh giving forecasts, getting
rewarded for it, others not so much. I'm
thinking of Stellantis, others
withdrawing entirely. UPS, how much is
this because it's a company that's has a
restructured business model versus the
overall backdrop. But this is going to
be an ongoing process of assessment and
people have different opinions about how
great that will be.
>> Equities positive this morning. The
opening bell about 65 minutes away. In
just a moment, we'll get you some trade
data. Mike McKe is going to break that
down. us. We'll catch up with Steven
Stanley of Santandere. Steven Stanley is
looking for zero on Friday. Payroll
Friday and Steven is looking for zero.
We'll get into the wine in just a
moment. From New York, you're watching
Bloomberg.
[Music]
60 minutes away from the opening bell.
Equity futures positive by 210 of 1% on
the S&P 500. Up by 0.4 on the NASDAQ
100. In the bond market, 2-year,
10-year, and 30-year yields are lower
this morning, down by two or three basis
points at the long end of the curve on a
10-year 43839 on 30s 492.45.
A week full of bond auctions for Lisa
and economic data as well. So, let's get
you some economic data now with Mike
McKe. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, we've got the
uh trade balance narrower than
anticipated. 86 billion is the uh total.
That's down from 96.4 billion uh revised
from the prior month. Imports fell by
4.2% and exports also fell by 6/10en of
a percent. These numbers basically
telling us what we already knew and I
know you'll talk about this with Steve.
Uh it's going to be a little harder to
untangle GDP tomorrow because of the
trade impacts. We had a big pull forward
in imports in the first quarter. Second
quarter looks like definitely now a real
uh rebound in that area, but that's not
uh what is really going to be telling us
what's going on in the economy. So the
Fed's going to have to untangle it as
are we.
>> Are we getting more of a sense though,
Mike, of just what the ramifications
from some of the uh tariffs and the
trade tensions are? uh are how they're
manifesting themselves in the economy.
>> Well, it's going to be interesting,
Lisa. We get jolts today, the job
openings numbers, and we have seen them
hold steady, which has been kind of
unusual. Quits rate actually uh went
down or went up a little bit uh the last
month and we get consumer confidence
that we just talked about. But uh the
thing that probably makes the uh most
sense is the Fed looking past some of
this data to the earnings numbers we're
getting now. the PNG number uh out
today. Uh the idea that they're just
giving you a broad guidance and their
chief financial officer says consumers
are under stress. That's going to
register with the Fed and then UPS
pulling its guidance for the year. Uh
they're all in the same position that
the Fed is and if the companies don't
know what they're going to be doing,
then the Fed is going to be sitting by
and waiting to see what happens,
especially once we get to tariff day on
Friday.
>> Mike McKe, thank you, sir. with the
latest looking ahead to that Fed
decision, that economic data just
moments ago, the trade balance narrowing
at the end of March that was negative
162 billion. We've basically halfed that
over the past few months. A lot of that
was frontloading going into the second
quarter and now we're starting to unwind
a whole bunch of it.
>> Yeah. Which goes to the question of how
much does the trade deficit end up
really uh getting shrunk as a result of
some of the tariffs? When do we get a
sense of what the full read is on the
new tariff regime at a time when a lot
of people say we really haven't seen the
ramifications?
>> We get some more data through the week.
The big one on Friday. Payrolls Friday
just around the corner. Check this out.
It's not a typo. This is what the
graphic is meant to look like. Steven
Stanley of Santandere with a bearish
forecast for Friday. He is looking for
zero jobs to be added, citing a quote, a
reversal of the outside increase in
government education jobs in June as
well as tariff related uncertainty and a
soft market for college graduates and
students. Steven joins us now for more.
Stephen, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> If you could flip this week and payroll
Friday was Wednesday and the Fed was
Friday, if they had that information and
it was zero, would they be cutting?
probably not this week, but I think it
would certainly uh nudge them in that
direction. Um, you know, as I mentioned,
the biggest piece of the weakness for me
is is in the government sector, and I
think that's something the Fed would
probably want to look through. I mean,
remember government employment was up
over 70,000 in June. So, this is just
kind of a reversal of that. Um, but
private sector, um, you know, we were in
the 70s in June. I have it at 55 in
July. If you go back to last year, we
had had 14 consecutive months of
payrolls being up at least 118,000
through May. And then June, July, and
August were all double digits. And I
think part of what's going on there is
we have a very soft job market for
college grads and college students
looking for summer jobs. The seasonals
assume a certain amount of hiring in the
summer and we're getting less. And so I
think we're likely to see a repeat of
that this year um with a little bit of
weakness on the private side in the
summer and then hopefully normalizing
again in the fall.
>> Can we just stay on government jobs? If
we're supposedly meant to look through
the weakness in government jobs,
shouldn't we have looked through the
strength as well?
>> Well, that's a good point and I Yes, I
would say we we Yeah, that definitely
wouldn't bring that up for obvious
reasons as you know
unemployment was very strong for a long
time. Um and then if you remember early
this year everybody was um was getting
very upset about the possibility of huge
layoffs in federal government jobs um
which you know have kind of you know
we've had negative numbers there but it
hasn't been enough to really move the
needle a lot. Um at the end of the day I
think you know the Fed is not ignoring
the government sector when it comes to
jobs but it certainly gets a lesser
weight than the private sector. There's
nothing inflationary in your projection.
It doesn't feel like this uh this labor
market is uh predictive of some sort of
inflationary spiral on the heels of
tariffs. So why shouldn't the Fed be
cutting to potentially provide a little
bit more support especially for
entrylevel students?
>> Yeah. Well, I mean the the the inflation
concern has nothing to do with labor
costs for once, right? This is all about
the possibility from the Fed's
perspective that you get a one-off
increase in prices from tariffs and then
that somehow morphs into a more
sustained increase in prices. I
understand the Fed's reticence to to
accept the textbook view that tariffs
are a one-off, right? Because we had
2021, they said transitory and it
wasn't. Um, and you can understand
they're once burned, twice shy on that.
Um, but I I think this is a this is an
unusual instance in which labor costs
are really not a a you know a big factor
in the inflation story.
>> Just to build on that, there is a theory
that you can't get some sort of
inflationary spiral unless consumers
have the ability to pay for it. Unless
they can absorb prices continuing to go
up, you are going to see a one-time
price shock. Is that transmission
mechanism broken this time? Well, I
think that's the biggest difference
between 2021 and 2025. I mean, in 2021,
households were flushed from all the
money that had been distributed by the
government during CO. Um, and I think
that helped to kind of perpetuate that
inflationary cycle. Um, we don't have
that this time around. A a tariff
increase to the extent that it gets
passed through to consumer prices is a
loss of purchasing power for households.
Um, so I do think we'll see relatively
soft consumer spending as those price
increases uh filter through.
>> What do you expect to hear from Chairman
Pound tomorrow?
>> Well, I think the the it's a really
interesting juncture for the Fed because
I think early in the year the tariff
thing hit and the story at the Fed was
we're going to just let we're going to
sit back and let's
watch this play out. We're not going to
do anything. We're not going to engage.
The problem is that the original, this
was certainly my original thought that
that the price increases and the
economic impacts would cycle through
within three or four months and the Fed
would be able to re-engage. Now it looks
like it's going to drag on for a long
time. You've got Bostic and others at
the Fed now saying these price increases
aren't going to be fully in place until
sometime next year. So, the the game
plan is changing and I think I'm very
interested to hear exactly what the Fed
is thinking in terms of what do they
need to see because if they're just
waiting for the tariff effects to be
totally through, they're going to be
sitting on their hands for a year. They
can't do that, right? So, um I think
it'll be even though they're not going
to move tomorrow or tomorrow, it's going
to be a very interesting meeting.
>> How divided is this FOMC going to be by
the time we get to September?
>> It could be very divided. I mean, look
at the June dots. We had um nine
FOMC participants who wanted to go twice
this year and seven who wanted to go not
at all and a few, you know, kind of in
in the middle. So, uh that's pretty
divided and
>> it's going to get messier too because by
the time we get to September, we might
have a decent idea of who the Fed chair
is going to be as well. So you face this
odd situation where you have division on
the committee and maybe the forward
guidance the chairman Pal starts to
offer for 2026 kind of becomes
irrelevant because you start focusing on
a different character. What does that
mean for market pricing and who to
listen to, who to ignore, and how we're
going to be guided into 26? Well, it's
just as you say, it's just a lot of
uncertainty, right? So the longer the
the process drags out um and the closer
we get to to May of next year, I suspect
it to the extent that we don't know who
the next Fed chair is going to be, the
markets are going to be speculating and
going back and forth depending on who
you know the latest leak of who's in the
running or whatever. If we get a if we
get a name early and the markets
conclude, okay, this person is going to
get passed through the Senate and
everything, this is going to be the
person. Um, then it yeah, it does create
a little bit of uh of uncertainty
around, as you say, does forward
guidance from the current FOMC matter? I
mean, you know, you've got 19 people on
the committee. You're only talking about
necessarily replacing one. Um, so maybe
the committee the the nature of the
debate changes, maybe it doesn't.
>> Just before you go, how much push back
have you had
>> over the zero?
>> A lot of curiosity. I don't know that I
would say there's been a lot of push
back, but uh, as you can imagine, a lot
of a lot of clients are very interested
in in getting some idea of the
reasoning.
>> When that number drops at 8:30 on
Friday, I think we'll all be thinking of
you, Stephen Stanley.
>> We hope you're right. We'll see. For
your sake, I hope the economy is better
than that. For our sake, for the labor
market.
>> Yeah. Although, how do we interpret
this? If it's just government jobs that
are overstated and then understated, how
good is uh, you know, 100K and how bad
is 0K? It's really going to be the
market kind of parsing through this. And
that's the reason why people are so
focused on the unemployment rate.
>> This might be the last time we have a
Fed meeting without knowing who the next
Fed chair is going to be. Now, this, of
course, would mean they'd have to have a
pretty accelerated interview process
through the summer and into the
September meeting. But when we go into
the next Fed meeting knowing who the
next Fed chair is going to be or at
least having a better idea of who it's
going to be, things would be a whole lot
messier.
>> Well, in the meantime, it's going to be
he's running or she's running and we're
going to look at any kind of potential
descents, the first since 1993, and say,
well, that's the audition slip.
>> That basically describes tomorrow
afternoon. Okay, before we get there,
let's give an update on stories
worldwide with some of our top stories.
Here's our Bloomberg brief with Yahara.
Hey, Yhara.
>> Hi, John. Blackstone confirmed one of
its employees was among the victims of
yesterday's deadly shooting in a
Manhattan office tower. A gunman opened
fire inside, killing four people before
taking his own life. Authorities say he
intended to target the NFL's
headquarters, also in the building, but
ended up on the wrong floor. Meanwhile,
Union Pacific has agreed to purchase
Norfolk Southern in an $85 billion cash
and stock transaction. It's the largest
deal to ever take place in the rail
industry. The tie-up is poised to
transform the North American rail
market, uniting uniting Union Pacific's
network across the western US with
Norfolk's East Coast routes, of course,
pending regulatory approval.
And Novo Nordic's shares are down nearly
20% after it lowered its financial
forecast in an unscheduled update. The
drug maker blaming slower demand for its
key weight loss drug, WGOI. Novo also
gave another update saying its head of
international operations Mazar Mike
Dudstart will become its new CEO. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next on the program, we'll
set you up for the day ahead. Plus,
we'll catch up with John Stalus of
Oppenheimer boosting his S&P 500 year
end target to a street high. That
conversation up next.
[Music]
The main reason we're bullish, okay, is
that the earnings revision breath has
exploded higher off of what was, you
know, a deep cyclical low that basically
priced in a recession for the most part.
So that revision breath is guiding us to
the performance that we've seen. You
know, the rolling recession call that
we've kind of been talking about. Well,
now it looks to us like we're having a
rolling recovery. Okay. And that will be
further spurred by the Fed cutting rates
at some point in the next year. Mike
Wilson and Morgan Stanley leaning into
the bull case in just a moment. We'll
catch up with the biggest bull on Wall
Street, John Stalers. Look out for that
conversation in a few minutes time. As
we count you down to the opening bow,
let's get you some movers. Your morning
movers with Danny Burgerer. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. A little over an hour ago we
had earnings from Boeing. A lot of
earnings to sort through this morning I
should say. Better than expected. The
cash outflow was just 200 million. The
expectation was that it would be over 1
billion. It shows that Kelly Orberg has
been working on this turnaround. It's
taking fruition. It also helps that a
lot of the trade deals the US has
reached has involved Boeing orders. So
those shares up 1.4%. We also heard from
Royal Caribbean. Those shares are
falling this morning 6.6% a miss on
their earnings. The issue for them were
cost. Specifically, they have a new
fancy cruise line that's supposed to be
luxury and it's going to be more
expensive. The incremental cost that
it's going to be to operate it daily is
more than the additional yield that they
will get from it. But the CEO saying
that demand is still very strong for the
cruises. So, it does bode well for some
of the other cruise operators. Finally
rounding things out this morning, we
have Stalantis updating what they say is
their hit to tariffs. $1.7 billion. Most
of that is going to be coming in the
second half of the year. So those shares
falling 2.6%. Bernstein writing that
yes, they did give a fullear guidance
finally, but it was more qualitative
than quantitative and that lack of
precision is disappointing. John
>> Danny, thank you. Thanks for the update.
The opening bow 43 minutes away as we
count you down. Here's your trading
diary for today and through the week.
Today, US China trade tours continue in
Sweden at 10:00 a.m. Jolt's data and
consumer confidence. Wednesday, Fed rate
decision, chairman pound news
conference, plus earnings from Meta,
Microsoft Thursday, another round of
jobless claims and results from Amazon
and Apple. On Friday, the payrolls
report and the president's self-imposed
tariff deadline. Let's stick with trade.
John Stalus of Oppenheimer writing, "We
believe enough tariff hurdles have been
overcome to reinstate our original price
target for the S&P 500 to 7100 by year
end." He is the most bullish on the
street. And John joins us now for more.
John, good morning.
>> Good morning, John.
>> How well received has that forecast
been?
>> Uh, remarkably well received. You know,
it uh for all that uh many still
consider this one of the most hated bull
markets uh of all time. uh at le I would
say it's one of the most doubted and has
most skeptics uh but when it comes to it
there is a contingency uh that is
appreciating what's going on and I think
it's intermediate to longer term
investors who are supporting this
>> is it on the edge of speculative or not
>> I don't think it's on the edge of
speculative I think the memes are the
speculative area and I would still think
that you know around the all the the
many cryptocurrencies and all I still I
don't get a warm feeling when I look at
When we look at when we look at an
anatomy of the John Stotzfist call, you
had 7,100 earlier this year. You
withdrew it after the April 2nd
announcement and now you're reinstating
it. What's giving you that clarity? Is
it just the deals that have gotten
announced so far?
>> It was it it was in particular it was
Japan last week over the weekend uh the
EU deal and basically we're not big fans
of of tariffs, Lisa, you know. Uh but
what we do recognize is it certainly is
a way to get everybody's attention into
creating a new world order in terms of
trade which allows more favorable terms
for the US and we think that's a
positive thing and it has to do with I
think the reason why it's a powerful
call is for for for decades now the
whole world has been building capacity
in manufacturing while we've been
exporting our our our our services and
and we we export our innovation
But we have reduced our our capacity in
terms of manufacturing. The US we
believe uh is is is the best customer
around uh we think whether it's China,
whether it's Europe or Japan or other
countries, they can look for other uh uh
people to replace the consumer of the US
or business. Uh but our per capita
income and the strength of our economy
makes us a customer that's willing to
pay better prices whether it's for a
lunchbox or a pencil sharpener or
whether it's for an automobile.
>> You know, Lori Kelcina of RBC Capital
has pointed to this pulling forward of
expectations that's on a scale she's
never seen before. The idea that so many
different investors are looking at 2026
beyond 2025 before we even get the
second half. Have we just brought
forward the strength from next year and
price that in? So after we get this
third year of 20 plus percent gains in
the S&P, we're not going to get more
years like that in your estimation.
>> I I I wouldn't I wouldn't venture to
guess that yet at this point. I think
I'm going to wait closer to December
before I usually do. I'm very
disciplined about that and then I'll
take a look cuz we've still got almost 6
months. You know, it's five months left
on this thing. We're rolling and there's
a lot that can happen
>> as we work our way through Q3. How
forgiving are investors going to be of
potentially weaker earnings and weaker
data on the prospect of better earnings
and better data in the future?
>> I think it's the quality of of weaker
data or what you mean by that. Explain
that.
>> Exactly. If if if if waker data is shown
to be something that is idiosyncratic uh
related to a particular company, they'll
be looking at what's the quality of
management, what's the current uh in
this cycle, where do they stand? Uh I'm
thinking of a big tech company, for
example, uh that are
>> there some landmines that you're
anticipating in a few months. Are there
any landmines that you're anticipating
going over the next few months?
>> Right now, no, but I'm always aware that
a landmine can appear. So, we want to we
want to be sure to take the mind sweeper
out. And whenever we go out every day,
we're looking for who where's the
bearish call? Uh how how strong is it?
Uh uh and and also look at the bullish
call and consider is it too overly
enthusiastic.
You know, values right now are not
cheap, but we would we would have to
say, you know, it's for the boomer
generation. I think traditionally stocks
are cheap at a 16 forward multiple at a
22.5 or 23 around where we are right now
it looks high but the composition of the
investor today is is decidedly different
and we think a lot of that has to do uh
it's generationally from boomers to much
younger generations and the reality that
social security will not be the same
percentage of income in retirement for
many people and if people start early or
if they continue in retirement uh to uh
invest suitably uh with exposure to
equities, they may be able to retain the
quality of and standard of living that
they have.
>> A year a year ago, investors were
talking about the equal weight rather
than the S&P market cap weight simply
because they wanted more exposure to the
rest of the index. They were
anticipating the broadening out. Where
are we in terms of that? because so far
we've seen big tech leading the charge
up and not showing any signs of
stopping.
>> Uh it it is but you know uh one thing
that's often uh forgotten and it's when
you look at the sectors it's industrials
are leading and industrials are leading
in two out of the three uh ways that we
look at it. We look at at at year to
date we look at from the peak and we
also uh look at from the lows and only
from the lows I think does industrials
fail to be number one. I think it's
number two in there. But I think that is
an essentially is a clue to the fact
that this this market is is certainly
broadened since last year. And we were
predicting that. We were one of the few
who thought that it was going to happen.
But we said it's not just about tech
because tech today so deeply embedded in
the lives of both business and consumer
helps both groups create greater
efficiencies in negotiating with each
other through all kinds of things. So I
think this is I think it's a I think AI
is a watershed event on the timeline of
of technology. Uh and we believe that
this flows through all 11 sectors uh
from tech and communications themselves
over the tech is situated but
industrials materials energy healthcare
financials consumer discretionary
everybody's on the upgrade cycle whether
we like it or not.
>> John appreciate your time.
>> Thank you sir. The most bullish on the
street, John Stous of Oppenheimer, just
got a statement from the president of
the United States. I wanted to share
that with you. I've been briefed on the
tragic shooting that took place in
Manhattan, a place that I know and love.
I trust our law enforcement agencies to
get to the bottom of why this crazy
lunatic committed such a senseless act
of violence. My heart is with the
families of the four people who were
killed, including the NYPD officer who
made the ultimate sacrifice. God bless
the New York Police Department and God
bless New York. at the scene of the
tragic shooting yesterday evening. Our
colleague Bloomberg's Miles Miller joins
us now for more. Miles, good morning.
Share with us the latest if you have it,
please.
>> Yeah, that's right. We are of course
learning the identity of one of those
victims, of course, uh Wesley Leanter,
who worked here at at uh uh Blackstone.
And what we know about her is that she
ran the firm's $ 53 billion real estate
fund. She was one of several people who
were shot yesterday. This is we're
learning more about the suspect as well.
Uh just got some information in from
federal sources who say that this
suspect had been previously arrested
twice in the past. One of those arrests,
we are told, happened in California for
trespassing. The next arrest happened
for throwing a substance at a vehicle
with intent to cause uh good bodily
harm. Uh we know that the investigation
is going to continue this morning and
the mayor saying this suspect
intentionally killed himself uh in the
way he did so that his brain could be
studied for CTE.
>> Mars Miller, thank you sir. Plenty of
updates throughout this morning from
Mars. We close out the show I think
offering our thoughts to all of the
loved ones of those lost and to the
whole team over at Blackstone from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]